when she was 19, married him and had the first
of her three daughters at 20. 'Good lawks!' said
Mrs Marrow. Talking of Charles had reminded
her it was lunchtime. This first daughter lived the
other side of Taunton. 'Excellent alluvial acid soil,'
she said.
'Charles farmed and I hunted with the Blackmore
Vale for 35 years - hunted, played tennis and golf,
all the spivvy things people did in the 18th century.
I won't shoot because I can't kill anything.' She
never squashes snails or slugs but throws them into
the next field.
Charles cooks lunch every day and takes a pretty
wry, good humoured view of what's going on.
'Cherry brandy?' he said invitingly, as though I'd
come in from a day's hunting. He has a gammy hip
and sits at the kitchen table in the window sur-
rounded by all the nursery garden files and paper
work with which he deals. His job is made no easier
by Patricia who is too busy to make out bills. 'I wish
money was like beech leaves in a sack and you could
get it out when you wanted it," she said.
Forty-three Dutch, he reminded her, were coming
to gawp at the garden at 4pm and some neighbours
were having trouble with badgers. 'Lion dung,' said
Mrs Marrow at once. 'You get it from Longleat.
Puts the badgers off."
HARLES MARROW, too, comes
from Berwickshire: 'A fighting north-
ern soldier from the snowholes of the
Cairngorms nothing to do with
England at all.' His father was killed
in battle before he was born and
the family house, Belhaven Hill, is now a school.
'Wonderful Dunbar soil.' Mrs Marrow said.
'Grows roses like nobody's business."
The name Marrow comes from the French, Maro.
'We were frightfully grand in 1415, when one of us
married the daughter of the French king,' said
Charles. And much later they started the Royal
Insurance in Liverpool.
noticing: are they glowing with health? Are they
looking peaky? You can't learn it from books. The
plants teach you; the more you work with them, the
more they make their wishes known. Some people
have a feel for them. I think a surgeon might be the
same; it's attention to detail. They need intensive
care. Same with horses, same with children. Some
people couldn't keep a rat alive. They're under your
care and they take priority over everything else.'
'Including your husband,' said Charles. 'Darling,'
said Mrs Marrow fondly. 'Is there a pudding?"
There was: delicious stewed damsons.
Mrs Marrow took up gardening when the last
daughter left home and she was too old to hunt.
Children, horses, plants, they were all things you
cared for, she said. 'It's a matter of taking pains and
She said gardening was like a drug: propagating,
sowing, potting on, propagating, sowing, potting
on... The thousands of plants in her nursery are
potted on every six months.
She has four-and-a-half days of unskilled help a
week. There are trays of seeds in yogurt pots all
over the kitchen. 'Good fresh seed,' she said, 'jumps
up at you.'
We walked round the garden, rather I walked and
Mrs Marrow weeded. She can spot a weed at 40
paces. Weeding, she said, moved the blood round
your body. 'You're up and down, struggling and
straining. I don't have time to be ill. Besides it's all
in the mind.' Or, as she added cryptically, 'between
the horse's ears.'
She weeded under the Douglas rose. She weeded
round the Convolvulus cneorum, a first class plant,
and the Convolvulus althaeoides, quite a different
matter. 'A thug,' she said. 'It's very pretty but
beware, this plant will grow under concrete. I love
these ferns, by the way, with their goffered sides.'
She was well ahead of me now, under the Daphne
Somerset and moving quickly on to the fine-leafed
bay from Mr Riddell of Fleurs Castle, and the
Pittosporum tobira.
Why were gardeners so snooty about other peo-
ple's gardens? It often seemed to me they only liked
their own.
'Because,' she said distantly she was on her
knees under the Cornus controversa 'Variegata'
'because they always think they can do better them-
selves. Gardening is creative you are creating
something beautiful, and like an artist you always
think your own interpretation is best.' By-passing
-
potting on; propagating, sowing, potting on
In characteristically
improvisational style, an
old pram becomes a
plant trolley. Above left,
foxgloves, 'completely
dwarfing' the
alstroemerias. Above right,
Mrs Marrow at work in
her prolific nursery
SHAWK POTTING COMPOST
POTTING COMPOST
MACGY POTTING COMPOST
COMPOST SHAMRO
MAMROCK
TARMACK
the onopordum, she had reached the Linaria dal
matica. Your best friend and it never leaves you.
unless you've gone silly with your hoe."
There was a commotion at the garden gate. 'By
golly gumdrops,' muttered Mrs Marrow under her
breath. 'Oh dear, Oh Lord, the Dutch!' And it was.
45 minutes early. They swarmed into the garden.
very sunburnt and chic, quite unlike English gar-
deners en masse. I was appalled. Mrs Marrow was
not looking her best in her tattered trousers, but
Mrs Marrow had disappeared.
They crowded round. They took my photograph.
they videoed me. They brought plants for my
inspection. Horrors! They thought I was Mrs
Marrow. One lady presented me with a piece of
paper covered in Latin: You have these plants?
Where was Mrs Marrow?
There she was at last, looking dazzling - tight
jeans, checked cowboy shirt, silk scarf, shady hat of
SHAMROCK POT
fine straw-and bearing a small kitchen drawer in
which to put the money.
'I have Patty's Plum, yes?' said another lady
hopefully, clutching a poppy.
'What is this please?"
POTTING CORP prickly-looking plant.
SHAMROCK POT
- someone held up a
'I usually have to wait for it to come out,' said
Mrs Marrow, adding disarmingly, 'It might
be anything.'
'That is an interesting answer,' said the Dutch
lady, nonplussed.
'What you have in your other hand,' said Mrs
Marrow, 'is Tutankhamun's Pea, an everlasting
sweet pea found when they excavated his tomb."
She rustled up Tropaeolum speciosum,
COMPOST Romneya coulteri and Schizophragma for the
POTTING COMPO
lady with the Latin list.
When I last saw her she was selling an iris. 'It's
a very small iris,' she was saying. 'It has little
flowers all the way up the stem with wavy white
and mauve veins, and a yellow middle. It's not an
ordinary iris-it. is the sweetest thing."
T
The little iris might not have a name or a price,
but what more need one know about it?
Kingsdon Nursery, Kingsdon, near Somerton TA11
7LE (01935-840232). No mail order
TELEGRAPH MAGAZINE 33
Page 50 of 140
56
make me a copy of this as I have
Could
You
to go into Taunton to make one-
1st October
1998
Dear John.
I have no body to
deide me
Ash Priove
The Priory
RECEIVED
-2 OCT 1998
Ns Taunkou
так
TAL? ND
I do not think for will
be suprised that I have made a
wew Will, based on one your
father made as I was about
to leave for the Continent I decided
to 
send 
to to Juheim Rowlande
friend, who used to be in Burn Lam
She is a Solicitor 7 although
a
J
had it witnessed she has
drawn it properly
• 
for
C
913
at last can sleep
I
sleep 
better
I have worried so much about
Page 51 of 140
ar
VI
