29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
I should make an extended civil restraint order against Mr Webster in two respects: to
include claims the claimant wishes to bring against the defendant personally or his
firm, whether in professional negligence or otherwise; and, second, to include claims
that the claimant wishes to bring against the claimant and Virginia Webster in their
capacities as Anthony's executors and trustees of Anthony's will trust. It will be clear
from what I have just said that in order to understand this you do need to have looked
at my earlier judgment of today.
The relevant provisions are in CPR Part 3 PD 3C. An order may be made where a
party has persistently issued claims or made applications that are totally without merit.
Prior to today the court had made three determinations that things done by Mr Webster
were totally without merit. First, his amended Particulars of Claim in the Taunton
proceedings, save for certain excluded paragraphs, were found to be totally without
merit. Secondly, the excluded paragraphs of the amended particulars were found by
HHJ Cahill to be totally without merit; and, third, an application for permission to
amend particulars of claim in the other action, claim 107, the one issued by Mr
Webster against Mr Penley and Virginia in the Chancery Bristol District Registry
relating to applications in the Taunton proceedings, which I mentioned before, was also
characterised as totally without merit. Those three totally without merit findings were
taken into account and relied on by HHJ Cahill when the judge made an extended CRO
in relation to Mr Webster in relation to the estate of Valerie. That is why the extended
CRO sought before me does not mention Valerie's estate but includes Anthony's will
trust in one of the two elements.
I also need to take into account the order I made today, in which the three cases which
were struck out were totally without merit.
Given the existence of the various orders characterised as totally without merit already,
which I believe can properly be taken into account in the circumstances although they
have already been relied on by HHJ Cahill, I do not have to grapple with whether it is
fair to regard what I have done today as a single finding or as three. I am not sure it
would be quite fair to take the order made today as three totally without merits,
although it is the case that Mr Webster did bring three separate sets of proceedings. All
the same if they were ever going to go forward, they would have been consolidated and
I think it would only fair to regard them as a single set.
In addition, I am invited to take into account the following. First, comments by Master
Matthews in relation to the Land Charges application. I have read all of what Deputy
Master Matthews said. He was clearly troubled by the proceedings before him, but he
did not criticise Mr Webster in terms which I can regard as a finding that the
proceedings were totally without merit in all but name. I will not take them into
account.
Second, a point which Mr Wooding invites me to take into account is the nature of the
claims which I have struck out, that they were against Mr Penley personally. He
describes them as a deliberate attack focused on Mr Penley personally when any
criticisms could have been made against Virginia also. He also submits that I should
take into account the fact that Valerie's estate remains unadministered as a result of
these ongoing actions and he tells me that every other member of the Webster family
wishes it to be administered and the Priory needs to be sold to meet the outstanding
7
Page 86 of 380
34.
35.
36.
37.
inheritance tax liability. Mr Wooding also tells me that outstanding costs orders, in the
order of about £135,000, have been unsatisfied and refers to the amount of court time
that has been taken up by Mr Webster's applications.
Mr Walder, for Mr Webster, emphasises the following. He particularly points out that
I have decided that Mr Webster does have the right, if he wishes to, to seek an account
and that I have not determined on its merits the argument about whether the valuation
was right or wrong in relation to the vacant possession questions mentioned in my
judgment. Mr Walder was right about that, although and I think it was just
overenthusiasm by Mr Walder in the course of his submissions - he suggested that I
held that that claim was arguable, and I have done no such thing. I simply did not
decide that claim one way or the other. What I decided to do was strike out these
proceedings. I have not expressed any view on the merits of that argument at all.
Nevertheless, as Mr Walder emphasises, part of the relevant context is that Mr Webster
has the right at least to seek an account, and I suppose if an account was not provided,
and I have no reason to suppose it would not be, to bring a claim for one. He clearly
wishes to bring a claim relating to the question of vacant possession and evaluation.
Whether it is arguable or not is not a matter that I have decided. That element of the
context seems to me, when I bear in mind all the other factors, a good reason why,
given that Mr Webster does plainly have a tendency to persist with applications which
are totally without merit, Mr Webster should be under the stricture of an extended civil
restraint order in relation to Anthony's will trust. However, I am not satisfied that it
would be fair or appropriate to extend the civil restraint order in the manner suggested
by Mr Wooding to cover the defendant personally, or his firm, whether in professional
negligence or otherwise.
In fairness to Mr Webster, he has not shown any tendency to make persistent claims of
an unmeritorious nature which go beyond the issues arising from the estates mentioned
in this case. An extended civil restraint order relating to Anthony's will trust, bearing
in mind there is one relating to Valerie's will trust already, does a measure of justice in
this case. It will mean that Mr Webster, if he as a properly arguable claim which he
wishes to bring relating to Anthony's or Valerie's estates, will have to put it to a judge
before he can issue it. In the circumstances that seems to me to be a fair and
appropriate sanction given the history of these proceedings, and that is what I will do.
I am not going to make an order for costs on an indemnity basis. It is an unusual thing
to do in the circumstances in which the court has struck out the proceedings and made
an extended civil restraint order on the basis they are totally without merit. The reason
why not, in the exercise of my discretion is that there has to be some redemption
somewhere. Mr Webster did take legal advice. Mr Walder contribution to these
proceedings and the fact that Mr Webster went to the trouble of being represented has
significantly reduced the costs and the amount of court time that was necessary to deal
with this matter. Although the proceedings themselves were totally without merit,
nevertheless it seems to me it is appropriate for the court to reflect that in some way
and the fairest way I can do it is by making an order for assessment on the standard
basis and that is what I am going to do.
I now to summarily assess the costs of this application and the proceedings as I have
struck them out on a standard basis. The total claimed in the statement of costs relating
to the applications is the sum of £16,516.90 and the total for the claims themselves, the
8
Page 87 of 380
38.
actions themselves, is £3,286.50. It is convenient to take these together, which comes
to an aggregate of just under £20,000. Mr Wooding has explained that the rates
charged by the fee earners in this case are lower than the standard rates on the basis
that this is an insurance case, and I agree with him.
Mr Walder submits that the time spent is too high. I am struck by some of the time
spent in some aspects of this, but I recognise that although it can be said that this is
simple in the sense that one simply looks at the claim put up against HHJ Pearl's
judgment, the allegations are pretty elaborate and would have needed some significant
amount of time for those involved in this case to deal with them. In my judgment, a
fair figure overall which was reasonably incurred and a reasonable and proportionate in
amount comes to £16,000 and that is the sum that I will assess these costs in total.
9
Page 88 of 380
FORM 269B1
(GS:01.07/13)
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL, CIVIL DIVISION
Her Majesty's
Court of Appeal,
REF: A3/2015/1181
[SEAL]
COURT OF APPEAL
28 SEP 2015
PENLEY & ANR -V-
WEBSTER
ORDER made by the Rt. Hon. Lord Justice Lewison
On consideration of the appellant's notice and accompanying documents, but without an oral hearing, in respect of an
application for permission to appeal
Decision: Refused, as being totally without merit and the applicant may not request the decision
to be reconsidered at an oral hearing.
Reasons
1. The foundation of the claim to title by adverse possession is the allegation in para 9 of the Amended Particulars
of Claim that Valentine and his family moved in to the north west wing of the Priory on 31 October 1995. However,
the letter from Bevis & Beckingsale dated 19 June 2008 (9/211) written on behalf of the Appellant and his mother
says unequivocally that he moved in "having been invited to do so by ... Mrs Valerie Webster". It is clear from that
letter that Valentine and his family occupied the property with consent, and not adversely. Consent is further
evidenced by Valerie's letter of 31 October 1995 (referred to in HHJ Purle's judgment at [34]), the Trustees'
Resolution of 7 March 2001 (6/151), and Mr Penley's letter of 15 August 2014 (18/292). The case now advanced is
also inconsistent with the facts alleged by the Appellant in his failed claim to have acquired an interest by estoppel.
Assuming in the Appellant's favour that the present claim, to the extent that it is based on adverse possession, is
not an abuse of process, it has no prospect of success. HHJ McCahill was correct to strike it out.
2. The allegation that there was an informal "buy-out" is not supported by any evidence. The possibility of a buy-out
was mentioned in Mr Penley's attendance note (6/137), but there is no evidence of any actual agreement or of any
consideration having been provided by Valentine. The Amended Particulars of Claim merely allege that Valentine
"may have" given part of the sale proceeds of Monks Walk: not that he actually did. In addition if he did, then the
Amended Particulars of Claim allege that the money was given not in exchange of an interest in the north west wing
of the Priory but for the new Settlement (which conferred no entitlement to a proprietary interest in the north west
wing). In addition it appears to be argued that the informal "buy-out" took place in April 1992. If Valentine acquired
any interest under that alleged agreement it would have vested in the Official Receiver upon his bankruptcy in
December 1992. The Appellant has no standing to litigate such an interest, as Nicholas Strauss QC held on 20
December 2011 (Supplemental Bundle p 395).
3. The skeleton argument also raises questions about representations and detrimental reliance. These are
irrelevant to the claim based on adverse possession. In addition they are the same arguments that formed the basis
of the failed claim before HHJ Purle. Even if the representations are not identical, they could and should have been
brought before the court in a single trial: Henderson v Henderson (1843) 3 Hare 100; Johnson v Gore Wood [2002]
2 AC 1. To the extent that the present claim is based on estoppel (which is not al all clear) it is an abuse of process.
4. In view of the Appellant's persistent, inconsistent and ill-founded attempts to dispute title and/or to set up an
interest in the north west wing of the Priory the judge was entitled to grant the injunction that he did; and to make an
extended civil restraint order. The Appellant has placed voluminous materials before the court and the judge was
entitled to take the view that no adjournment was necessary for him to understand the Appellant's case and to
decide the application fairly.
Information for the parties: This decision is final.
Where the Court of Appeal refuses permission to appeal without a hearing, it may, if it considers that application
is totally without merit, make an order that the person seeking permission may not request the decision to be
reconsidered at a hearing (see CPR 52.3(4A) (a)). Such an order has been made in this case. The appellant is
therefore unable to request that an oral hearing be arranged.
The application for permission to appeal to this Court has been refused. No appeal may be made
against this decision to the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom: see S54(4) of the Access to Justice Y's
Act 1999.
The Parties have exhausted the domestic appellate process.
F&W
Page 89 of 380
OUR
APPE
Case Number: A3/2015/1181
Signed:
Kuin hewise
Date: 28 September 2015
By the Court
Page 90 of 380
DATED 28TH SEPTEMBER 2015
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
- and -
JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY
- and -
ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT
ORDER
Copies to:
Rupert Jolyon St John Webster
C/O Patricia Marrow
Kingsdon Nursery Garden
Kingsdon
Somerton. Somerset
TA11 7LE
Clarke Willmott
DX 97175
Taunton Blackbrook
Ref: LT060/1714/0723/365148.00001
Lower Court Ref: B30BS071
Page 91 of 380
FORM 269C1
COURT OF APPEAL
(GS:22.10.15)
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL, CIVIL DIVISION
REF: A3/2015/2453
Her Majesty SEAL
Court of Appeal
Webster -V-
Penley
17 DEC 2015
ORDER made by the Rt. Hon. Lord Justice Floyd
On consideration of the appellant's notice and accompanying documents, but without an oral hearing, in respect of an
application for permission to appeal and an extension of time
Decision: granted, refused, adjourned. An order granting permission may limit the issues to be heard or be
made subject to conditions.
Refused
Reasons
The claims which the applicant wishes to pursue are claims that the personal representatives, when they valued the
estate 
at a particular date, ought to have made an allowance for the existence of claims against the estate (even
those which 
have subsequently been finally decided in proceedings between him and the estate). The fundamental
problem which the applicant faces is that these are not the claims which are pleaded in any of the actions. The
particulars of 
claim did not therefore disclose this cause of action and it does not provide any basis for not striking
out the 
claim. There is also no basis for an attack on the judge's exercise of discretion not to permit the wholesale
re-formulation of this 
claim.
There is no independent ground of appeal seeking the setting aside of the extended civil restrain order.
An appeal would not therefore have a realistic prospect of success.
The notice of appeal is also out of time. The applicant is an experienced enough litigant to know that the time limits
need to be observed. 
The fact that he was making an ill-advised attempt to appeal to the Supreme Court direct
does not 
amount to a good reason for not protectively filing a notice of appeal or seeking an extension of time. In all
the circumstances I refuse to 
extend time.
Information for or directions to the parties
*
This case falls within the Court of Appeal Mediation Scheme automatic pilot categories". Yes
Recommended for mediation
If not, please give reason:
Yes
No
Where permission has been granted, or the application adjourned
a) time estimate (excluding judgment)
b) any expedition
(1) Rule 52.3(6) provides that permission to appeal may be given only where -
Notes
Signed:
No
HER
MAJESTY'S
E&W
COURT
PURL OF APPEN
Date: 16 December 15
the Court considers that the appeal would have a real prospect of success; or
a)
b)
there is some other compelling reason why the appeal should be heard.
By the Couple
Page 92 of 380
(2) Rule 52.3(4) and (5) provide that where the appeal court, without a hearing, refuses permission to appeal that decision may be reconsidered at
a hearing, provided that the request for such a hearing is filed in writing within 7 days after service of the notice that permission has been
refused. Note the requirement imposed on advocates by paragraph 16(1) of CPR PD 52C.
(3) Where permission to appeal has been granted you must serve the proposed bundle index on every respondent within 7 days of the date of the
listing window notification letter and seek to agree the bundle within 21 days of the date of the listing window notification letter (see paragraph
21 of CPR PD 52C).
Case Number: A3/2015/2453
Page 93 of 380
DATED 16TH DECEMBER 2015
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
- and -
JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY
ORDER
Copies to:
Rupert St John Webster
C/O Kingsdon Nursey Garden
Kingsdon
Somerset
TA11 7LE
Wsp Solicitors Dursley
26 Long Street
Dursley
Gloucestershire
GL11 4JA
Chancery Division
1st Floor, Roll's Building
File Management
London EC4A 1NL
Ref: HC141B01306
Page 94 of 380
OYAL
URTS
Neutral Citation Number: [2016] EWCA Civ 1139
OF J
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL (CIVIL DIVISION)
ON APPEAL FROM THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
Birss J.
Case No: HC14B01306/HC14C01307 & HC14D01309
[2015] EWHC 2745 (Ch)
Case No: A3/2015/2453
Royal Courts of Justice
Strand, London, WC2A 2LL
Date: 17 November 2016
Before:
LORD JUSTICE PATTEN
Between:
RUPERT JOLYON RICHARD ST. JOHN WEBSTER
-and-
JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY
Appellant
Respondent
Mr Webster appeared in person
Hearing date: 10 November 2016
Approved Judgment
Page 95 of 380
Judgment Approved by the court for handing down.
Webster v Penley
Lord Justice Patten :
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
This is a renewed application by Mr Webster for permission to appeal from an order
of Birss J. striking out three claims against Mr John Penley, a solicitor. The claims
challenge the valuation of the estates of Mr Webster's grandparents, Antony and
Valerie Webster, and that of the estate of his father, Valentine Webster, that were
made for inheritance tax purposes. Action 306 relates to the estate of Valentine;
action 307 relates to the estate of Valerie; and action 309 relates to the estate of
Antony.
Mr Penley is the executor of the estates of Antony and Valerie along with
Mr Webster's aunt, Alison Virginia Ashcroft ("Virginia"), who is not a party to any of
the three actions. But the judge ignored the procedural difficulties which this creates
and dealt simply with the substantial issue of whether the three actions should be
struck out as an abuse of process.
The particulars of claim served in each action are not easy to follow but in each case
the central allegation is that the estate valuation did not take account of claims which
Valentine had (and, through him, the claimant) to occupy the whole or alternatively
certain parts of the property known as The Priory at Ash Priors near Taunton.
As Birss J. explains in his judgment, there have been at least four sets of earlier
proceedings relating to the rights of Valentine and the claimant to occupy The Priory.
The most significant of these was action no. HC09C01570 in which Mr Webster, as
administrator of Valentine's estate, sought to establish a claim to The Priory and two
adjoining fields on the basis of proprietary estoppel. Following the death of Antony,
The Priory and its land was held on discretionary trusts for his issue either under the
trusts of Antony's will or under a separate discretionary trust created by Valerie in
1992. Valentine was one of the discretionary beneficiaries.
The estoppel claim was based on various representations or promises alleged to have
been made by Antony and Valerie to Valentine that The Priory would come to him.
At the trial in May 2013 HH Judge Purle QC rejected this claim on the evidence and
the Court of Appeal subsequently refused permission to appeal from his order. In the
three actions dealt with by Birss J., Mr Webster relies on a right to possession by
Valentine arising from assurances made to him by his father. These are clearly the
same allegations as those raised in the earlier actions and, insofar as other alleged
assurances or agreements are now relied on, they should have been raised as part of
that claim.
There have also been two sets of possession proceedings in the Taunton County Court
again brought by Mr Webster relating to The Priory based on adverse possession and
an alleged tenancy. These have been struck out. One of the allegations pleaded in
those proceedings is what is referred to in the current proceedings as Antony's
agreement.
Before Birss J. Mr Webster's counsel accepted that the majority of issues relied on as
relevant to valuation were now res judicata against Mr Webster but that the claims
should be treated as claims for an account against the executors of Antony's and
Valerie's estates. He accepted that there was no basis for such a claim in respect of
Valentine's estate.
Page 96 of 380
Judgment Approved by the court for handing down.
Webster v Penley
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.
13.
The difficulty about this is that the claims are presently formulated against Mr Penley
in his capacity as a solicitor and not as an executor. A claim for an account would
also necessitate joining Virginia as a defendant to the claims in respect of the
grandparents' estates. In order to impugn the executors' valuation of the estates it
would also be necessary to allege a breach of duty against them which is not currently
pleaded.
The judge declined to treat the claims as claims for an account and that decision
cannot be criticised as wrong in principle. In any event, the matters which the
executors are said to have failed to take into account in valuing the property are the
claims which in the earlier proceedings have been held to lack any substance. An
appeal from his order, therefore, has no prospect of success and in my view would be
totally without merit.
A challenge to the extended Civil Restraint Order made by the judge would be equally
hopeless in the circumstances.
On the basis of the grounds of appeal dated 28 July 2015, I would therefore dismiss
the application. But at the oral hearing of his application, Mr Webster asked me to
consider further issues based on Article 8 and Article 1, Protocol 1 ("A1P1”) of the
European Convention of Human Rights which he told me needed to be considered by
the Court of Appeal following an earlier inconclusive hearing in the ECtHR. To re-
inforce this he showed me copies of a claim which he has issued against the Ministry
of Justice. The particulars of claim allege that it would be disproportionate and a
breach of the Convention for Mr Webster and his family to be deprived of the right to
live at The Priory and the claimant seeks to rely on his rights under Article 8 and
A1P1 as a ground for re-visiting the earlier court decisions I have referred to. I am
told that Rose J has adjourned an application to strike out these proceedings pending
judgment on this application.
I propose to treat Mr Webster as having made an application to amend his grounds of
appeal to include reliance on Article 8 and A1P1. But it is clear that the Convention-
based claims are misconceived. The executors' title to The Priory is based on two
wills which have been admitted to probate. Under those wills (and also the 1992
discretionary trust) Valentine had no vested or other beneficial interest in The Priory
and its adjoining land. Mr Webster accepts this in terms in his various pleadings. In
order to establish a legal right to possession against the estate the claimant therefore
commenced the earlier actions I have referred to based on proprietary estoppel,
adverse possession and a tenancy. It is not suggested (nor could it be) that the
resolution of those claims was not Article 6 compliant and in none of the various
actions did Mr Webster rely on Article 8 or A1P1.
Even had Mr Webster sought to rely on those Articles of the Convention it would not
have assisted him. He was asserting rights adverse to the owner of the legal estate in
reliance on agreements and adverse possession which he was unable to establish on
the evidence. The result of the proceedings is that he has no title or interest in The
Priory and its adjoining land and therefore no right to possession which falls to be
protected under A1P1 or Article 8. Nor did the issue of possession or deprivation in
any event arise. These were not claims for possession by the estate and, even if they
had been, an action by a private landowner in respect of his own property would not
be sufficient to engage the Convention in relation to the position of the defendant. To
Page 97 of 380
Judgment Approved by the court for handing down.
14.
Webster v Penley
deny such an owner the right to possession of his own property would, if anything,
involve a breach or limitation on the landowner's own A1P1 rights: see McDonald v
McDonald [2016] UKSC 28.
I therefore refuse permission to amend the grounds of appeal and dismiss the
application for permission to appeal.
Crown copyright©
Page 98 of 380
Case No: HC-2009-000065 (formerly HC09C01570)
A
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
B
BEFORE:
MASTER MATTHEWS
BETWEEN:
C
D
The Rolls Building
7 Rolls Buildings
Fetter Lane
London EC4A 1NL
Thursday, 9 March 2017
MR RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
Claimant
- and -
(1) ASHCROFT
(2) PENLEY AND OTHERS
Defendants
MR R ST JOHN WEBSTER appeared in person
MR O WOODING appeared on behalf of the Defendants
E
PROCEEDINGS
F
G
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London, EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance
with relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the
case concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the
applicable information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the
internet, including social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making
sure that applicable restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a
fine and/or imprisonment. For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask
at the court office or take legal advice.
H
1
Epiq Europe Ltd, Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 | www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 99 of 380
Thursday, 9 March 2017
THE MASTER: This is just an application for a final charging order.
A
MR WOODING: Yes.
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
THE MASTER: Sorry, I cannot read it. Mr?
MR WOODING: Mr Wooding.
THE MASTER: Mr Webster, I received your statement, and so I have read it.
MR ST JOHN WEBSTER: Thank you. Have you by any chance received my draft
order?
THE MASTER: No, I have not received your draft order.
MR ST JOHN WEBSTER: We had a chat outside about what probably are the
...
differences between us. I am told there are still differences. I do have a copy here.
THE MASTER: I will look at that quickly. Where is the let us look at the interim
charging order. How does this differ? What you have handed me is an interim
charging order.
MR ST JOHN WEBSTER: Yes, it was my attempt to settle the differences between us
before today.
THE MASTER: Yes. Excuse me, but the difference --
MR ST JOHN WEBSTER: The difference, point 1, in the amount of the creditor's sum
of £185,999 instead of £220,205, that being the amount which
Master Gordon-Saker actually found the costs liabilities were. The difference in
point 2 in that Judge Pearl in paragraph 4 of his order, which is where this
charging order comes from, ordered that my grandmother pay any costs
uncoverable from me. So, I am thinking, if we are going to have a charging order
then let us make it a charging order and let us charge her like it says in
Judge Pearl's order.
THE MASTER: Yes, but the position ... where you just referred me to something that
was said by HHJ Pearl, where does that arise? Is that in the order that is the
subject of the charging order?
MR WOODING: Master, if I might assist on this point. It is tab 1 of the bundle, page 2.
This is HHJ Pearl's order. I take a different view from Mr Webster as to what it
means, but I believe paragraph 4 of the order is the paragraph to which
Mr Webster is referring.
THE MASTER: They would be entitled to recover from the first and second ...
2
Epiq Europe Ltd, Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 | www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 100 of 380
