Ralton directed that a transcript be obtained and filed by 23 March 2020, and stayed
enforcement of the order until determination of the issue of permission to appeal.
4. It appears that the transcript for approval was sent to the wrong email account and was only
approved by the judge on 7 January 2021. On 8 January 2021 it was received in Bristol. The
file was then placed in front of me to consider the question of permission to appeal (this
being a County Court decision by a district judge). On 12 January 2021, I ordered that the
application be refused as totally without merit, and not to be renewed at an oral hearing.
My written reasons ran to 54 paragraphs, and reviewed the litigation as well as the grounds
of appeal.
5. Since then the claimants have been seeking to enforce the original possession order.
However, the moratorium on evictions as a result of the Covid pandemic had a considerable
impact on these attempts. Moreover, Mr Webster was himself not inactive. On 15 June 2021
he issued an application in the Bristol District Registry of the High Court seeking a
declaratory order that he had a right, and had succeeded, to a tenancy of the land pursuant
to schedule 1 of the Rent Act 1977, and therefore he was entitled to purchase the freehold
under the Leasehold Reform Act 1967. Essentially this was an attempt to add a further
ground of appeal against the possession order of January 2020. I refused it for reasons given
in writing on 23 June 2021 (sent out on 5 July 2021).
6. A date for eviction was set for 23 August 2021. There was then a series of applications by Mr
Webster to set aside the possession order or the writ of execution, or at least to stay the
eviction. One of them sought to raise a new point under the Rent (Agriculture) Act 1976. All
of these applications were dismissed. In relation to the further point under the 1976 Act. I
held that it was too late to raise another argument which should have been raised at first
instance, when it could have been considered and any relevant facts found.
7.
8.
9.
Mr Webster was evicted from the Property on 23 August 2021. However, he then applied to
the court to set aside the eviction on the basis that the procedure adopted had been
unlawful, and the wrong kind of writ had been executed. By order of 26 August 2021, HHJ
Cotter QC (as he then was) held that Mr Webster was right about this, that the wrong writ
had indeed been used, and ordered that he be restored to possession. Mr Webster went
back into possession of the Property.
Mr Webster filed an appellant's notice dated 10 September 2021, seeking permission to
appeal against my orders of 23 June 2021 and 21 August 2021 and the order of HHJ Cotter
QC of 21 August 2021. On 8 November 2021 I struck out the application so far as related to
my own orders, for reasons then given in writing, but directed that the application in
relation to the order of HHJ Cotter QC be placed before a High Court judge. On 11 April
2022, Mr Justice Zacaroli dismissed the application for permission to appeal against the
order of HHJ Cotter QC, and recorded that it was wholly without merit.
On 12 May 2022, the claimants applied for permission to issue a warrant of possession
against Mr Webster. On 30 May 2022 DJ Markland gave such permission on the papers. The
date for eviction was fixed for 11 August 2022. However there was a typing error in the
order, on the basis of which Mr Webster applied on 1 August 2022 to suspend execution of
2
Page 365 of 380
the possession order. This did not proceed to a hearing, as the claimants agreed to withdraw
the warrant for possession because of the typing error.
10. The claimants applied again for an eviction date. It was fixed for 10 November 2022. Mr
Webster applied on 4 November 2022 for an order "under the Housing Act 1988 about a
dwellinghouse subject to an assured agricultural occupancy". On 7 November 2022 DJ
Rahman ordered a stay of execution of the possession order and gave directions for the
hearing of Mr Webster's application.
11. An application was listed for hearing on 9 January 2023. On that day District Judge Bosman
held that the strict terms of CPR Part 83 had not been followed, and therefore the
possession order could not be executed under the then warrant of possession. However, the
claimants were given permission to request a further warrant. That further warrant was
obtained, and the new eviction date was fixed for 9 February 2023. But on 6 February 2023
Mr Webster once more applied (by notice in fact dated 31 January 2023), and once again for
an order "under the Housing Act 1988 about a dwellinghouse subject to an assured
agricultural occupancy".
12. As I said earlier, District Judge Bosman treated the application as one to prevent the eviction
fixed for 9 February 2023 from taking place. Both sides were represented by counsel. There
was insufficient time to complete the argument and the application was adjourned to 3
March 2023, when both counsel could attend again. In the meantime, execution of the
warrant was stayed.
13. Mr Webster also issued a further application dated 21 February 2023, concerning (1) an
application notice dated 26 August 2021, (2) consolidation of the present claim with High
Court claim PT-2023-000059, and (3) a contingent money claim. The judge directed that this
be heard at the same time. At the end of the arguments on 3 March, the judge reserved his
judgment because of lack of time. That judgment was handed down on in writing on 10 April
2023.
14. So far as concerned the application notice dated 26 August 2021, this appears to have been
prepared immediately after the hearing before HHJ Cotter QC on 26 August 2021. That
notice sought (i) a declaration regarding a stay of execution and (ii) costs and damages under
sections 1 and 4 of the Protection from Eviction Act 1977. However, the district judge found
that there was no copy of that application notice on the court file. He decided that the first
part (seeking a stay) was now otiose, as overtaken by events. So far as concerned any claim
for damages, that had to be commenced by way of a claim form in accordance with CPR Part
7, and could not be commenced by way of an application notice in Form N244. The judge
therefore formally dismissed this part of the application.
15. So far as concerned the possible consolidation of this claim with case PT-2023-000059 in the
High Court, the district judge declined to interfere with a case between the same parties
proceeding in the High Court, stating that it was for that court to deal with the matter. He
therefore dismissed that part of the application.
16. So far as concerned the contingent money claim, this was a claim for damages arising from
the eviction on 23 August 2021, which was subsequently set aside on 26 August 2021. It may
3
Page 366 of 380
also have been a claim for the return of tendered rent of approximately £35,000. The judge
took the view once again that any such claim had to be commenced by claim form under
CPR Part 7, and not by way of application notice in Form N244. He therefore dismissed that
part of the application as well. The district judge recorded that all three parts of the
application had been totally without merit.
17. The district judge turned then to the application of 4 November 2022 for an order "under
the Housing Act 1988 about a dwellinghouse subject to an assured agricultural occupancy".
As I have said, he treated this as an application for the warrant of possession to be
suspended, set aside or otherwise dismissed. Mr Webster's argument (through counsel) was
that the possession order was a default judgment under CPR Part 12, which the court had no
power to make in a Part 55 claim (see rule 55.7(4)), and it should therefore be set aside
under CPR rule 3.6.
18. The judge held that it was too late to make an application under rule 3.6, because rule 3.6(2)
required that any application under rule 3.6 had to be made within 14 days after the order
was originally made, so in this case by 30 January 2020. But now, more than three years
later, was the first time that the point had been raised. But, in addition, he held that the
argument failed on its merits. This was not a default judgment under CPR Part 12. That Part
dealt with cases where the defendant did not file an acknowledgment of service or did not
file a defence. But in the present case Mr Webster had filed a defence, and DJ Walsh had
struck it out subsequently as having no reasonable prospect of success.
19. The judge accepted that the question whether Mr Webster was not a trespasser in the
Property by reason of some other capacity such as tenant or licensee was not determined in
the proceedings. But that was because it was not raised, as it should have been, at the time.
It was not now possible to reopen the case in order to make appropriate factual findings. All
the points which Mr Webster now sought to advance under various statutes were simply
collateral attacks on the possession order of 24 January 2020.
20. Accordingly, the district judge dismissed Mr Webster's application. He also made a limited
civil restraint order against him, reserving further applications in these proceedings to
himself.
21. In his grounds of appeal dated 4 May 2023 Mr Webster sets out considerable family history
and the background to this and other litigation over some five pages in 35 paragraphs. He
uses a number of abbreviations throughout, including "V" for his late father Valentine, “J”
for his mother Jennifer, "A" for his paternal grandfather Antony, "G" for his paternal
grandmother Valerie, and "P" for his maternal grandmother Patricia. The first 14 paragraphs
deal exclusively with the earlier litigation concerning his paternal grandparents' estates,
which has nothing to do with this litigation, and about which the claimants obviously know
very little or nothing at all.
22. In the final paragraph he summarises his five grounds as follows:
"a. The whole matter has clearly gone too far, disproportionately, against V's family
involving eviction offences & wrongly made court orders causing discrimination
against persons with disabilities and their family members.
4
Page 367 of 380
b. P's agricultural operations brought about an ASO at the Yeovil House [ie the
Property] and D is family member to succeed to it. P's market garden requires
proper consideration.
c. An order for possession by default judgment can't be valid. If enforcement isn't
stayed it will be an offence under s 1 protection from eviction because of said
statutory restriction.
d. There's extended discretion of court in the making of an order for possession.
Evictions are considered detrimental. For their whole lives V's family members relied
on A's and G's encouragement, that's refused on a basis of discrimination against
disability, and the family removed to P's house. Another eviction is also detrimental.
e. The high court & court of appeal declared that P's house was available but the
County Court is making an order that it's not. D has issued High Court claim PT-2023-
000059 for a proper declaration on the family status."
23. He does not say anything directly concerned with the three applications contained in the
notice of 26 August 2021. I deal first with each of the five grounds set out above in turn, and
then I will deal with the other three applications which the district judge dismissed.
24. Ground a is a general complaint about what Mr Webster refers to as "the whole matter",
meaning the whole litigation about his grandparents' estates on both sides of the family. His
reference to persons with disabilities is a reference to his own father, Valentine, who
unfortunately suffered from motor neurone disease. Mr Webster has sought unsuccessfully
to appeal all the decisions against him in relation to his father's affairs. All those appeals are
at an end. But his father's affairs have nothing to do with the present litigation, which
relates to property which belonged to Mr Webster's mother's parents. There is nothing
arguable arising from this ground.
25. Ground b does relate to the property the subject of the present claim. I assume that the
abbreviation "ASO" refers to an assured agricultural occupancy. But the problem is that Mr
Webster never raised before the district judge in the possession proceedings the question of
any statutory protection, or his right to succeed to a tenancy or occupancy of the Property (if
by that time there had been a tenancy or occupancy to succeed to). Moreover, the court
held in fact that any tenancy had been surrendered. It is an abuse of process for Mr
Webster, having lost the possession proceedings, now to seek to reopen them with new
arguments. There is no real prospect of success on this ground.
26. Ground c focuses on CPR rule 55.7(4), which prevents a default judgment under Part 12
being entered in relation to a possession claim under Part 55. The problem is that, as the
district judge said, this was not a default judgment under Part 12. Part 12 applies only to the
case where the defendant fails to file an acknowledgment of service or defence. But Mr
Webster did file a defence. The problem was that it was later struck out by the court as
having no real prospect of success. This ground cannot succeed.
5
Page 368 of 380
27. Ground d focuses on what Mr Webster calls the "encouragement" of his father's family by
his father's father and mother in relation to the property which they owned but which did
not pass to his father alone on their deaths. But that is irrelevant to the question arising in
the present litigation, between the claimant trustees and Mr Webster, concerning the
property formerly occupied by his maternal grandparents. This ground cannot succeed
either.
28. Ground e refers to the fact that in the proceedings relating to Mr Webster's paternal
grandparents' estates the courts, in deciding to order Mr Webster to give up possession of
the property concerned in that litigation, took account of the fact that Mr Webster then
apparently had available to him accommodation at the property the subject of this litigation.
But the courts can only make orders on the basis of the materials available to them at the
time. Obviously, circumstances may change.
29. Moreover, Mr Webster refers to the High Court proceedings which he issued on 26 January
2023 in London under reference PT-2023-000059 against the present claimants. This sought
to establish his right to remain in the Property, and also (and rather oddly) to set aside the
existing order for possession in the present proceedings. Indeed, one part of his application
dated 26 August 2021 was concerned with the possible consolidation of that claim and this.
In the present case the judge reserved his judgment on 3 March 2023, but did not deliver it
until 10 April 2023.
30. On 21 March 2023, however, Master Brightwell, sitting in the Chancery Division in London,
transferred this claim to Bristol, and a copy of his order was sent to the parties. On 3 April
2023 I had accordingly considered this claim on the papers, and struck it out on the basis
that this was an abuse of process. This was because it raised a point which could and should
have been raised in the original possession proceedings, but had not been. Mr Webster
should have notified the district judge in the present case of Master Brightwell's order and
my own, because it obviously affected what the district judge might decide in his judgment.
However, he failed to do so, thereby misleading the court. At all events, this ground cannot
succeed, not least because the High Court claim has gone.
31. The position accordingly is that none of the grounds of appeal expressly relied on by Mr
Webster has any prospect of success. Of the three applications in the notice of 26 August
2021, the first has, as the district judge noted, been overtaken by events. There is no
prospect of successfully challenging his dismissal of that. The second application has fallen
away with the striking out of the High Court claim, and there can be no successful appeal in
relation to that. The third application was dismissed because you cannot start a claim for
damages by an application notice in Form N244 inside another claim (here possession
proceedings brought by another party against you). There is not prospect of successfully
appealing that.
32. I can see no other compelling reason for giving permission to appeal, and I therefore refuse
such permission. I also record that this application was totally without merit. If the district
judge had not already made a civil restraint order, I would have done so. As I have previously
stated in earlier decisions in this litigation, Mr Webster has already had a disproportionate
share of the limited judicial resources available. Enough is enough.
6
Page 369 of 380
33. Finally, CPR rule 52.4(3), (4) provides that:
"(3) Where in the appeal court a judge of the High Court, a Designated Civil Judge or
a Specialist Circuit Judge refuses permission to appeal without an oral hearing and
considers that the application is totally without merit, the judge may make an order
that the person seeking permission may not request the decision to be reconsidered
at an oral hearing.
(4) For the purposes of paragraph (3), 'Specialist Circuit Judge' means any Circuit
Judge in the County Court nominated to hear cases in the Circuit Commercial,
Chancery or Technology and Construction Court lists."
34. I am a circuit judge sitting in the County Court, nominated to hear cases in the Circuit
Commercial and Chancery lists. In dealing with this application for permission to appeal, I am
of opinion that it has been totally without merit, in that it was doomed to fail from the
outset. Accordingly, under rule 52.4(3) I may make an order that the appellant may not
request the decision to be reconsidered at an oral hearing. In my judgment, for the reasons
already given, it is appropriate for me to do so here. Mr Webster therefore may not request
an oral reconsideration of my decision, which is final.
PBM 100523
7
Page 370 of 380
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
SITTING IN BRISTOL
CHANCERY APPEALS (ChD)
Case No: CH-2023-BRS-000002
BEFORE:
HIS HONOUR JUDGE RALTON
(Sitting as a Judge of the High Court)
BETWEEN:
Bristol Civil and Family Justice Centre
2 Redcliff Street
Bristol BS1 6GR
Monday, 23 October 2023
BRUCE KERSTIN WEIR AND LESLEY JOAN GASKELL
(As trustees of the JS NEAL DECEASED TRUST)
Respondents/Applicants
-and-
(1) PERSONS UNKNOWN
(2) RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
First Respondent
Appellant/Second Respondent
MR TREVIS appeared on behalf of the Appellant/Second Respondent
MS SAMPSON appeared on behalf of the Respondents/Applicants
JUDGMENT
(Approved)
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol, BS32 4NE
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/ Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance with
relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the case
concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the applicable
information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the internet, including
social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making sure that applicable
restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment.
For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask at the court office or take legal
advice.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 371 of 380
1.
2.
3.
JUDGE RALTON: This is an appeal in respect of the order made by DJ Bosman in
the County Court at Yeovil on 18 April 2023. At paragraph 4 of that order he said that:
"A limited civil restraint order is made against the second
defendant. Any further applications by him in these
proceedings must be made to DJ Bosman in accordance with
the Civil Procedure Rules Practice Direction paragraphs 3C.2."
At paragraph 6 of his order, the district judge refused the second defendant's
application for permission to appeal most of the orders that he made, but he did grant
permission to appeal in respect of the limited civil restraint order and that is the appeal
that comes before me today.
It is going to be necessary to provide some background context and to identify the
parties involved. The second defendant is Mr Rupert St John Webster. The claimants
are Mr Bruce Kerstin Weir and Ms Lesley Joan Gaskell in their capacity as trustees of
the JS Neal Deceased Trust. They, of course, are the respondents to Mr Webster's
appeal.
4.
Before I turn to more of the background of the case, I must record my gratitude for the
assistance given to me by counsel today, namely Mr Trevis, who appears on behalf of
the appellant, Mr Webster, and who I think has provided Mr Webster with quite a lot of
assistance pro bono in the past, and Ms Sampson, who appears on behalf of the
trustees.
5.
It would appear that Mr Webster has had the misfortunate of being involved in
rather a lot of litigation. I am aware of litigation that involves a Taunton property. The
claimants in that case are different persons (I think they are the Penleys) and whilst I
have been told about that litigation, which as I understand it involved issues of probate,
and I understand that Mr Webster was the unsuccessful party in that litigation, I do not
think that that litigation can properly inform me about this litigation. I say that to
reassure Mr Webster that whatever adverse orders were made against him in the Penley
proceedings, those adverse orders do not affect any thinking on my part.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 372 of 380
6.
7.
To turn to the proceedings in question, they have something of a long history and I
very much doubt that I will do justice in my very brief summary of the history, but I
think this is sufficient for the purposes of this appeal court's task.
The claimants, for whom I shall use the shorthand "the trustees" were, at the relevant
time, freehold owners of Bondip Farmhouse near Somerton. There was a lease in
respect of this property and, as I understand it, the property has for years formed the
home of Mr Webster and his family, in particular parents, and grandparents before
them. It would appear that the lease, or rather the residue of the term created by the
lease, passed to Mr Webster's mother, Jennifer. The trustees contended that that was
the legal situation. They contended that Jennifer surrendered the lease and therefore
they were entitled to possession as against the person still in the property, described as
"Persons unknown" and then "Mr Webster".
8.
9.
10.
Mr Webster did not agree that the trustees were entitled to possession and raised, it
appears, a number of defences. In turn, the trustees said that the defences had no
prospects of success and this resulted in a hearing before DJ Walsh (as he then was) on
16 January 2020. The parties were then represented, Mr Clarke appearing on behalf of
the trustees and Mr Trevis appearing on behalf of Mr Webster.
After hearing submissions, the trustees' case found favour with DJ Walsh and, amongst
other things, he made a possession order in their favour against Mr Webster.
Mr Webster was dissatisfied with the order of DJ Walsh; he considered it to be wrong
in law and he sought to appeal. He of course needed permission to appeal and that
came before HHJ Matthews on the papers, it seems, on 1 February 2021. HHJ
Matthews refused Mr Webster permission to appeal and he also exercised his
jurisdiction as a specialist circuit judge under CPR 52.4(3) that his refusal to grant
permission to appeal could not be reconsidered at an oral hearing.
That in many ways saw the end of the proceedings and it is right to record that
Mr Webster is very aggrieved that a possession order was made against him by DJ
Walsh and upheld, in effect, by HHJ Matthews without there being at any stage in the
process a trial. It is apparent from that which I have read and that which I have heard
from Mr Trevis, that Mr Webster believes very much in the righteousness of his
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 373 of 380
11.
12.
13.
14.
position as against the other parties, but unfortunately a district judge and
then a specialist circuit judge, have disagreed with him. What I certainly cannot do is
revisit in any sense the order of DJ Walsh or the order of HHJ Matthews of 12 January
2021 because it would be obviously inappropriate of me to do so and, quite simply, I
have no jurisdiction so to do. I am in no sense a further appellate court.
That then takes us to the proceedings which came before DJ Bosman. Those
proceedings need to be seen in the context of attempts made by the trustees to enforce
their possession order. Inevitably the Covid pandemic and the emergency rules that
were passed by reason of the pandemic had their own contributing effect to the general
delay, but it is also right to observe that the trustees made a number of technical errors
at times which resulted in successful applications being made by Mr Webster, in effect,
setting out that the enforcement of the process that the trustees had taken was, for want
of a better description, illegal in that the rules had not been complied with.
There were other applications made by Mr Webster. The reality of the situation is this.
By the time the proceedings came before DJ Bosman sitting in the County Court at
Yeovil, the judge was in effect faced with the trustees' attempts to enforce their
possession order by securing vacant possession and applications made by Mr Webster
to try to introduce further reasons and jurisdictional bases why the trustees should not
be able to recover possession. It might be said and I think it was said of course that
such arguments should have been brought in the possession proceedings in the first
place.
Be all that as it may, the district judge at a hearing attended by counsel, came to the
conclusion that Mr Webster's applications of 31 January 2023 and 21 February
2023 incorporating an earlier application of 26 August 2021, were to be dismissed and
the January and February 2023 applications were recorded as totally without merit. He
lifted the stay on the warrant for possession, he made the limited civil restraint order to
which I have already referred and there was a costs order and I have dealt with the
matter of permission to appeal.
On, I think, 5 May 2023, Mr Webster filed an appellant's notice seeking to challenge
the order of DJ Bosman of 14 April 2023. He sets out his grounds of appeal which
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 374 of 380
15.
commence with a narrative incorporating the matters that he was aggrieved about and
then at paragraph 35 he says in summary, his grounds of appeal are:
"(a) the whole matter has clearly gone too far,
disproportionately against the Valentine's family involving
eviction offences and wrongly made court orders causing
discrimination against persons with disabilities and their family
members."
I pause there to observe I understand that Valentine suffered motor neuron disease and
indeed Mr Webster has submitted a photograph showing his grandfather and I think
others who have also been afflicted by that terrible disease.
Returning to the specific grounds of appeal, he says at 35(b):
"P's agricultural operations brought about an ASO at the Yeovil
House."
ASO, as I understand it, is some agricultural type tenancy.
"and D [Mr Webster] his family member to succeed to it. P's
market garden requires proper consideration.
(c) An order for possession by default judgment cannot be
valid. If enforcement is not stayed it will be an offence under
section 1 Protection from Eviction [a reference to the 1977 Act]
because of said statutory restriction.
(d) There is extended discretion of court in the making of an
order for possession. Evictions are considered detrimental for
their whole lives. V's family members relied on A's and G's
encouragement. That is refused on a basis of discrimination
against disability and the family removed to P's house.
Another eviction is also detrimental.
(e) The High Court and Court of Appeal declared that P's house
was available but the County Court is making an order that it is
not. D has listed High Court claim
PT-2023-000059 for a proper declaration on the family's
status."
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 375 of 380
16. Although the entirety of DJ Bosman's order is challenged, the grounds of appeal do not
seem discretely to attack the limited civil restraint order, but no doubt if Mr Webster
was successful in challenging perhaps what might have been to him the more important
parts of the district judge's order, it would have been illogical not to challenge the
limited civil restraint order.
17.
There is a reserved judgment given by DJ Bosman to which I will return in due course.
It is a long judgment which reflects, I think, the number of issues that the District Judge
had to consider.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
The appellant's notice and the judgment of DJ Bosman made its way to HHJ Matthews
to again consider permission to appeal. On 10 May 2023 (amended on 11 May 2023)
HHJ Matthews refused Mr Webster permission to appeal and made the same order that
he made with respect to what I can refer to as the possession order appeal, an order
under rule 52.4(3) that Mr Webster could not seek reconsideration of his application for
permission to appeal at an oral hearing.
As with the possession order appeal, perhaps even more so in his reasons refusing
permission to appeal, HHJ Matthews is fairly scathing about the appeal and the
grounds of appeal.
It appears from the investigations that I have made, that at this point in time, it was
overlooked by HHJ Matthews that DJ Bosman had granted permission to appeal in
respect of the limited civil restraint order and when this was drawn to HHJ Matthews'
attention, the matter of the appeal against the LCRO was listed and it has been listed
before me.
I think that my prior involvement in this case was limited to one other order made by
myself at some point ordering a transcript. I do not think otherwise I have been
involved in these proceedings.
That, I hope, provides a short and hopefully reasonably fair summary of how we get to
today, 23 October.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 376 of 380
23.
Mr Trevis accepts that DJ Bosman had the jurisdiction to make a limited civil restraint
order because there are two or more orders made against Mr Webster which have been
marked as totally without merit. The challenge, therefore, is to DJ Bosman's
discretion, whether or not to make a limited civil restraint order against Mr Webster.
24. Practice Direction 3C actually says very little about the discretion. Mr Trevis did not
take me to the judgment of DJ Bosman as such, and I will return to that in due course,
but I shall address certain matters raised by Mr Trevis. Mr Trevis's fundamental points
on behalf of Mr Webster I think can be summarised as follows. Firstly, Mr Webster
has not brought these proceedings. He is the defendant responding to these
proceedings. Mr Webster is doing all that he can to preserve the family home on his
understanding of the laws that apply to him, that Mr Webster remains exceedingly
aggrieved, as I alluded to earlier, that there has not been a trial properly of the claims
and importantly his defences to those claims, but in my words rather than Mr Trevis's,
he had had the door shut in his face at every opportunity.
25.
Mr Trevis says Mr Webster is merely defending his position and has pointed out that
some applications made by Mr Webster were successful and I have pointed out the
technical defects in some of the applications for enforcement. There was some
dialogue between myself and Mr Trevis about the extent to which it was remotely
feasible for me to re-revisit the merits of the orders made by DJ Walsh, DJ Bosman and
then on two occasions HHJ Matthews, because it is readily apparent that HHJ
Matthews was ad idem with the district judges about their views of the merits of
Mr Webster's position and, as I said earlier, HHJ Matthews was rather scathing of
Mr Webster.
26.
I expressed in the course of the appeal a sympathy, which I express again in this
judgment, that this does mean in reality Mr Trevis has very little material with which to
work. As I said during the proceedings, HHJ Matthews has already done the work of
revisiting the merit of the orders made by the district judges and the totally without
merit orders. Although Mr Trevis has not taken me to the judgment of DJ Bosman, I
feel that I must take myself to it and that it is at paragraph 54 where he addresses the
limited civil restraint order:
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 377 of 380
"There is one further matter I must consider, namely the
claimant's application that a limited civil restraint order is made
against the second defendant. I have considered CPR rule
3.11 and CPR PD 3C and the notes in the White Book and
Green Book in relation to this matter. In this long-running
litigation the second defendant has made more
N244 applications than I have ever seen previously
from a party in any other case I have dealt with. The history of
this case is such that when, after today, the claimant obtains
another date for eviction there is an inevitability that the second
defendant will seek to issue another N244 to prevent the
eviction from taking place. It is this type of litigation conduct
that the civil restraint order regime was introduced to the Civil
Procedure Rules to address. In his order of 21 August 2021,
HHJ Matthews states that Mr Webster has 'has had a wholly
disproportionate share of the judicial resources available' and
since then Mr Webster has utilised that resource on numerous
further occasions. In the circumstances I am making a limited
civil restraint order against the second defendant having regard
to CPR Part 3.11 and CPR PD 3C.2. Pursuant to paragraph
2.21 of the Practice Direction, any further application by the
second defendant must be made to me."
27.
28.
29.
As I say, there is the district judge's reasoning and I have not heard, whether within
grounds of appeal or oral submissions, any real challenge to that reasoning. The
challenge, as I say, has been to the overall righteousness (for want of a better word) of
the litigation and the unfairness to Mr Webster of the case management and orders that
have taken place to date.
I remind myself under rule 52.21 that an appeal is limited to a review of the decision of
the lower court in a case such as this and that I should only allow an appeal if I am
persuaded that the decision of DJ Bosman was wrong or unjust because of a serious
procedural or other irregularity in the proceedings in the lower court. It must be the
case that the challenge here is on the basis that the district judge's decision was wrong.
This was a discretionary decision. It is difficult to challenge a discretionary decision.
There is no doubt that the district judge had the jurisdiction to make the order that he
made. There is no doubt that the district judge directed himself towards the relevant
provisions of the Civil Procedure Rules. There is no doubt that the district judge
considered the shape and nature of all of the litigation that had taken place to date.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 378 of 380
30.
I have not been taken to a factor which the district judge failed to take into account
or a factor which the district judge took into account and should not have taken into
account. In those circumstances, I did not really need to hear to any great extent from
Ms Sampson, who has prepared a skeleton argument. There may be some argument
about costs that were flagged up by Mr Trevis, but suffice it to say that the trustees
through Ms Sampson say that the district judge was right to make the order that he
made.
31.
I do not need to refer to the authorities quoted by Ms Sampson given the way in which
the appeal has been pursued. Was DJ Bosman wrong? It is not for me to make the first
instance decision; it is for me to review his decision and nothing has been said to me
which can persuade me, I am afraid, that DJ Bosman's decision was wrong. Therefore
I dismiss the appeal.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 379 of 380
