EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS
COUR EUROPÉENNE DES DROITS DE L'HOMME
About this application form
This form is a formal legal document and may affect your rights
and obligations. Please follow the instructions given in the "Notes
for filling in the application form". Make sure you fill in all the
fields applicable to your situation and provide all relevant
documents.
ENG - 2021/1
Application Form
Warning: If your application is incomplete, it will not be accepted
(see Rule 47 of the Rules of Court). Please note in particular that
Rule 47 § 2 (a) requires that a concise statement of facts,
complaints and information about compliance with the
admissibility criteria MUST be on the relevant parts of the
application form itself. The completed form should enable the
Court to determine the nature and scope of the application
without recourse to any other submissions.
Barcode label
If you have already received a sheet of barcode labels from the
European Court of Human Rights, please place one barcode label
in the box below.
Reference number
If you already have a reference number from the Court in
relation to these complaints, please indicate it in the box below.
A. The applicant
A.1. Individual
This section refers to applicants who are individual persons only.
If the applicant is an organisation, please go to section A.2.
A.2. Organisation
This section should only be filled in where the applicant is a
company, NGO, association or other legal entity. In this case,
please also fill in section D.1.
1. Surname
St John Webster
2. First name(s)
Rupert
3. Date of birth
28071972 e.g. 31/12/1960
10. Name
11. Identification number (if any)
12. Date of registration or incorporation (if any)
D D
M M Y
Y
Y
Y
e.g. 27/09/2012
D
D
M M
Y
Y
Y
Y
4. Place of birth
United Kingdom
5. Nationality
British
6. Address
Marrow
Kingsdon
Somerton
Somerset
TA11 7LE
UK
7. Telephone (including international dialling code)
+44 (0) 7740 289100
8. Email (if any)
rupert@webstersystems.co.uk
13. Activity
14. Registered address
15. Telephone (including international dialling code)
16. Email
9. Sex
male
female
Page 149 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
B. State(s) against which the application is directed
17. Tick the name(s) of the State(s) against which the application is directed.
ALB-Albania
AND - Andorra
ITA - Italy
LIE - Liechtenstein
ARM - Armenia
AUT - Austria
LTU - Lithuania
LUX - Luxembourg
AZE - Azerbaijan
BEL - Belgium
BGR - Bulgaria
BIH - Bosnia and Herzegovina
CHE - Switzerland
LVA - Latvia
MCO Monaco
MDA - Republic of Moldova
MKD - North Macedonia
MLT - Malta
CYP - Cyprus
CZE - Czech Republic
DEU Germany
DNK - Denmark
ESP - Spain
MNE - Montenegro
NLD Netherlands
NOR - Norway
POL - Poland
PRT - Portugal
EST - Estonia
FIN - Finland
ROU-Romania
RUS-Russian Federation
FRA - France
GBR - United Kingdom
GEO - Georgia
GRC Greece
SMR San Marino
SRB - Serbia
SVK Slovak Republic
-
SVN - Slovenia
HRV Croatia
HUN - Hungary
IRL - Ireland
ISL - Iceland
SWE - Sweden
TUR - Turkey
UKR Ukraine
2/13
Page 150 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
C. Representative(s) of the individual applicant
An individual applicant does not have to be represented by a lawyer at this stage. If the applicant is not represented please go to
section E.
Where the application is lodged on behalf of an individual applicant by a non-lawyer (e.g. a relative, friend or guardian), the non-
lawyer must fill in section C.1; if it is lodged by a lawyer, the lawyer must fill in section C.2. In both situations section C.3 must be
completed.
C.1. Non-lawyer
18. Capacity/relationship/function
C.2. Lawyer
26. Surname
19. Surname
27. First name(s)
20. First name(s)
28. Nationality
21. Nationality
22. Address
29. Address
23. Telephone (including international dialling code)
30. Telephone (including international dialling code)
24. Fax
25. Email
31. Fax
32. Email
C.3. Authority
The applicant must authorise any representative to act on his or her behalf by signing the first box below; the designated
representative must indicate his or her acceptance by signing the second box below.
I hereby authorise the person indicated above to represent me in the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights
concerning my application lodged under Article 34 of the Convention.
33. Signature of applicant
34. Date
e.g. 27/09/2015
D D M M Y
Y Y
Y
I hereby agree to represent the applicant in the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights concerning the application
lodged under Article 34 of the Convention.
35. Signature of representative
36. Date
e.g. 27/09/2015
D
D
M M Y Y
Y
Y
Electronic communication between the representative and the Court
3/13
37. Email address for eComms account (if the representative already uses eComms, please provide the existing eComms account email
address)
By completing this field you agree to using the eComps of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
D. Representative(s) of the applicant organisation
Where the applicant is an organisation, it must be represented before the Court by a person entitled to act on its behalf and in its
name (e.g. a duly authorised director or official). The details of the representative must be set out in section D.1.
If the representative instructs a lawyer to plead on behalf of the organisation, both D.2 and D.3 must also be completed.
D.1. Organisation official
D.2. Lawyer
38. Capacity/relationship/function (please provide proof)
46. Surname
39. Surname
40. First name(s)
41. Nationality
42. Address
47. First name(s)
48. Nationality
49. Address
43. Telephone (including international dialling code)
50. Telephone (including international dialling code)
44. Fax
45. Email
51. Fax
52. Email
D.3. Authority
The representative of the applicant organisation must authorise any lawyer to act on its behalf by signing the first box below; the
lawyer must indicate his or her acceptance by signing the second box below.
I hereby authorise the person indicated in section D.2 above to represent the organisation in the proceedings before the European
Court of Human Rights concerning the application lodged under Article 34 of the Convention.
53. Signature of organisation official
54. Date
D D
M MYY
e.g. 27/09/2015
Y
Y
4/13
I hereby agree to represent the organisation in the proceedings before the European Court of Human Rights concerning the application
lodged under Article 34 of the Convention.
55. Signature of lawyer
56. Date
e.g. 27/09/2015
DD M MY Y Y Y
Electronic communication between the representative and the Court
57. Email address for eComms account (if the representative already uses eComms, please provide the existing eComms account email
address)
By completing this field you agree to using the eCorning of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
Subject matter of the application
5/13
All the information concerning the facts, complaints and compliance with the requirements of exhaustion of domestic remedies and
the six-month time-limit laid down in Article 35 § 1 of the Convention must be set out in this part of the application form (sections E,
F and G). It is not acceptable to leave these sections blank or simply to refer to attached sheets. See Rule 47 § 2 and the Practice
Direction on the Institution of proceedings as well as the "Notes for filling in the application form".
E. Statement of the facts
58.
1. In summary, the UK has made a series of decisions with respect to the Applicant ("A") and his family:
(a) there was no detriment from 22 years' unpaid work at the paternal family's farm in reliance on ownership.
(b) there was no detriment since 1996 on being denied any inheritance provision and no "buy out" deal.
(c) to cancel A's land charges in respect of any "buy out" or other right, interest or claim to carry on the farm.
(d) to arrest A and remove him, his family, from the paternal family's farm, and agricultural business since 1987.
(e) to make retrospective court orders for A's family's evictions after the event.
(f) to make court orders that A not "publish words" to assert any right, interest of claim to the land.
(g) to refuse routes of appeal and make extended civil restraint orders against A making any complaint.
(h) to tell A's mother that she surrendered the maternal family's 35 year lease by operation of law.
2. A says that these decisions produce a form of modern slavery or servitude - the people involved have no rights, no
interests, no claims, no property, and no legal status. Many years of agricultural service is unpaid. Like slaves. Worse,
there are tax returns made without applicable agricultural tax reliefs and as though the people did not exist.
3. Therefore A complains about violations of A4, A5, A6, A8, A10, A13, A14, A1P1 and A1P12.
4. The A14 and A1P12 complaints of discrimination are because of what made it possible for the UK to decide (a) to (h) was
forms of discrimination against A's father ("V") who suffered motor neurone disease ("MND") and became a person with a
disability. The United Nations defines "discrimination on the basis of disability" as "any distinction, exclusion or restriction
on the basis of disability which has the purpose or effect of impairing or nullifying the recognition, enjoyment or exercise,
on an equal basis with others, of all human rights and fundamental freedoms in the political, economic, social, cultural,
civil or any other field. It includes all forms of discrimination, including denial of reasonable accommodation".
5. V began to suffer MND in 2004. In 2006 he was removed as legal owner of any of his father's farm ("G") on the basis of
his disability, and without informing him. This took the form of removing him as a personal representative for his mother.
She was then 98 years old and also physically disabled by old age, and an invalid.
6. V was usually a representative for his parents until their usual solicitor retired in old age in the 1980's. During 1992, G
made some fairly complex wills and trusts to do with his 37 acre farm, 6 or 7 residential properties, and associated tax
reliefs, with many beneficiaries. V was the only one of 4 children now left out as a representative. After G died in 1996 he
was reappointed for his mother. He lived at the farm, with his family, and his mother, and worked there every day.
7. After his career in the Royal Navy, V worked at his father's farm for the remaining 22 years of his life. He carried on a
business with A's mother selling trees and shrubs from the land, breeding rare animals, maintaining the farm and the farm
buildings. He was unpaid for his work except for selling trees, which does not make much money. The family carried on a
lifestyle as described in the UN Declaration on the Rights of Peasants and Other People Working in Rural Areas.
8. Once V was replaced as a representative that denies him (or his representative) a legal right to act with respect to the
family's farm, providing new representatives a right to (a) submit tax returns as though nobody had worked the land, and
that nobody was resident at the farmhouse (including A's mother) with an inflated valuation without any tax relief, for
example agricultural relief to inheritance tax; and then (b) to demand legal action from V (or his representative).
9. V's family stood to lose their home and agricultural business overnight, after losing V to a quite terrifying disability. A
met the demand for legal action. Now that A had no legal status, his 1 acre crop of St John's Wort, a medicinal herb, was
ploughed up in order to help the other side's case. At a trial in 2013, the family's 22 years' work with the farm was called
"mutual family support" undeserving of any detriment, right, interest, claim, value, or respect. A says that fails to respect
rights of peasants and other people working in rural areas, and produces a form of modern slavery or servitude.
10. The fairly complex wills and trusts of 1992 had established a "trust of land" over the farmhouse and 7 acres of land.
The other land and cottages were in another trust. The former created a restriction under the nation's trusts of land and
appointment of trustees act 1996, at section 13, to not cause occupiers of the trust of land to cease to occupy without
their consent, or a court order, and on the making of any order to cause any person to cease to occupy the court is to have
regard to 4 (a) the intentions of the person or persons making a trust, 4 (b) the purposes for which the land is held, and 4
(c) the circumstances and wishes of any beneficiaries.
11. The trial judge clearly decided not to produce orders to cause A's family to cease to occupy, and so he was not obliged
to have regard to section 13, 4 (a) to (c) and he did not. He probably should have. Without a trial nobody would know. A's
family did not consent to cease to occupy, or cease to use the land. A says that the statutory restriction remained in place.
12. There were very large costs secured on the farm by the new representatives.
Page 153 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
Statement of the facts (continued)
59.
6/13
13. A was advised by a QC to place land charges on the land that his family occupied, which he did. The representatives
(now court approved) applied to the Land Registry to register the property as though nobody was living there. They also
applied to the court to cancel A's land charges, which were cancelled. The main reason was "res judicata" the trial.
14. For some time, A's mother was looking after her mother who suffered from dementia and required full time care. She
was commuting the 30 miles between the paternal family farm (where she had started to give up the trees and shrubs
business) and her mother's house. The maternal family had had farm tenancies of 350 acres since the
year 1948.
15. A's maternal grandfather had surrendered his main farm tenancies in 1995 not only because his daughter, A's mother,
was working at the paternal family farm, but also in exchange for a 35 year lease on his farmhouse, until the year 2029.
16. By the end of 2014 A's maternal grandmother required full time help. A's mother "half moved" to help her.
17. Once A's mother had moved out, and when A was away on business, the representatives at the paternal family farm
took the opportunity to have A's household goods also moved to the maternal home, and to change the locks.
18. After A found out that the locks were changed and he was removed from his house, he consulted the Police, who told
him that was a civil matter because there was no court order to cause A, his children, to cease to occupy. A had the locks
changed again and returned back home. Some days later the representatives found this out (it took some days because
nobody else actually occupied but A - his wife and children also having another house) and called the Police saying that A
was a burglar. They knew that was not the case. A was arrested by armed police. After interview, A was released without
charge. By then his kitchen door was vandalized so that it would not open again.
19. On A's return to the property the next day he was unable to open his external door. Now, the representatives called
the Police to arrest A on the basis that he was not registered in actual possession of the property with the Land Registry.
The Police were shown a copy of the new title. A was arrested for a "breach of the peace". He was driven down a road
then "de-arrested" and told that he would be arrested again if he returned there.
20. V was buried in one of the gardens at the trust of land about 50 yards from where these events took place.
21. These events provoked several legal actions. The County Court found for A's wrongful eviction. However, the High
Court made an order that A (and thereby A's mother, A's wife and 3 children) was no longer to occupy the family home,
with very substantial costs against A. The reasons appear to be not only that there was a title registered at Land Registry
without declaring A, his family in actual possession, but also any interest for A's family was "res judicata" the earlier trial.
Complaint by A, including wrongful eviction, and a trust of land point, was "totally without merit" and required an
extended civil restraint order against A for 2 years. There was a clause that ordered A not to "publish words" with
meanings that would assert any interest in the paternal family home, except in numbered legal proceedings.
22. The restraint order had an exception to claim "professional negligence as a disappointed beneficiary or otherwise".
23. On discussion with a QC on all matters, A had also brought 3 claims for tax determinations of tax liabilities of the 3
estates of A's paternal grandfather, grandmother and father. These claims were now struck out as "res judicata" and
"totally without merit" and requiring another extended civil restraint order against A.
24. The maternal family landlords brought a claim for possession against A's grandmother, A's mother and A.
25. A applied for permission to appeal his family's evictions. The court was leaving out a restriction on trusts of land.
26. Also, A had argued in the lower court that it was nearly 20 years since the year 1996 when G died, but V received no
provision, confirmed at a trial, but V had a right to provision under the nation's Inheritance Act. V's right not exercised,
says A, because of an informal "buy out" which after 18 years ought to be protected by limitations, even if other
representatives had now registered a title at Land Registry without it.
27. It was discovered at trial - and otherwise unknown to A - that G's instructions to his solicitors were for V, A to receive
life interests in the trust of land (V's family as the only family living there and working there) with a "buy out" of residue
for all others using shares in the rest of the farm - the other 30 acres and 5 or 6 properties outside the trust of land.
28. The solicitors had agreed to a "buy out" but had warned G that if V, or A, took any legal interest in the trust of land
then it would have to be sold to pay tax. A does not think that warning was true. It appears to be an excuse.
29. Again, leaving V out of legal provision created a cause of action, or right, to reasonable financial provision under the
nation's Inheritance Act. As V pursued his right, he was (a) reappointed as 1 of the legal representatives in 1998, and (b)
conceding his right, in favour of others, he initiated the informal "buy out" of the trust of land, which were G's intentions
anyway. He pays others for his side of the deal, so to speak.
30. By now 18 years had passed so A claimed a right to register the "buy out" by limitations, at least for that part of the
trust of land where the family had exclusive occupation. In fact, merely 1 wing of the farmhouse.
31. A's argument was rejected for unintelligible reasons on 28 September 2015.
32. With all of A's claims rejected, 1 of the representatives brought a statutory demand against A for payments of legal
costs or to face bankruptcy. A applied to set aside the demand on the basis that (a) legal insurers already paid most of the
costs, and (b) the rest were secured on the paternal farm, and (c) what about A's claim for "professional negligence as a
disappointed beneficiary or otherwise" against the solicitors involved who fomented legal action in the first place?
Page 154 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
Statement of the facts (continued)
60.
7/13
33. A was told that his application to set aside a statutory demand was automatically dismissed because he had not first
asked permission to apply under an extended civil restraint order. A applied for permission and it was given, but by then
there was no protection from a bankruptcy petition being issued against A, with further costs.
34. At the set aside hearing A was told that security for costs from the paternal farm was "quasi security" that was not
security, and there were no particulars for a claim in "professional negligence". Therefore the demand was not set aside,
with further costs against A. A paid off the "quasi secured" sum.
35. The representatives hired Savills the estate agents to find purchasers for the whole farm. It was demanded to exhume
V's grave. The Home Office granted a license on the basis that A was mentally unsound and should not be informed. V's
human remains were removed to a nearby churchyard.
36. Savills estate agents handled a sale, during which they told A that "buyers were aware of the situation".
37. A's maternal grandmother died of old age. Her landlords restarted legal action for her house under the 35 year lease.
A's mother volunteered to move out, and did so, leaving A in possession.
38. At a 2018 hearing the maternal action was stayed by consent for A to investigate "leasehold enfranchisement" of the
lease. A made offers to purchase the freehold. The landlords later renewed the action, now against "Persons Unknown".
39. At a 2020 hearing A was told by the County Court that the lease was surrendered by operation of law. A's mother had
emailed Greenslade Taylor Hunt estate agents to say she would move out, and had moved out. A possession order was
made against A.
40. A applied for permission to appeal the possession order on the basis that there was no writing to surrender the lease.
Further, A's mother says in writing that she did not surrender it. She has a right to a fair hearing. Further, A has another
right under the UK Rent Acts since he was living at the property with his grandmother for more than 2 years before she
died. According to the national law, A can continue to rent the property.
41. The landlords now made an offer for A to purchase the property. A organized a local building surveyor to make a
building survey. The surveyor advised that the building was in such poor condition (A's grandmother was always in her
garden) that nobody would lend money secured on the property until it was done up. A purchase price should be lower.
42. Meanwhile the global pandemic makes it difficult to hire builders to do up a property.
43. Then the finance - representatives at the paternal family home held £1,250,000 of sale proceeds of the trust of land,
and more for the rest of the farm. They had applied for cost certificates and charging orders to ensure that no proceeds
are provided to A, nor A's mother, nor A's wife and children, contrary not only to the wills and trusts of 1992, and G's
intentions, but also the nation's Inheritance Act, once again.
44. With cost certificates and charging orders were in place, the representatives brought a legal claim against each other,
presumably to wind up the trust, and without informing A. Farm accounts were produced in the claim in which £35,000
was paid to accountants. An accountancy fee ought to be more like £800 + VAT.
45. There was 1 route of appeal open to A, which was to apply for permission to appeal, now out of time, to cancel land
charges. The reasons were a repeat of the reasons given here - that there is a restriction under the national law so that
occupiers of a trust of land may not be caused to cease to occupy without their consent or a court order, otherwise there
is an offence under the national law, and also that on making an order to cause occupiers to cease to occupy the court is
to have regard for (a), (b) and (c) set out above. A land charge would enforce said restrictions, and rules.
46. A, with counsel, found that no argument could actually be submitted for land charges to assert any interest in the
paternal family land, even under (a), (b) and (c) above, without an application to vary the order for A to "publish words" to
assert an interest. The wording of the land charges is: "an equitable charge as a tenant for life in actual occupation, having
an overriding interest pursuant to an equitable license".
47. A brought the land charges application within 6 years, which is the limitation for civil claims, but could not publish the
land charges or submit arguments. The application to extend time beyond a usual 21 days was dismissed on the papers.
48. A applied for an oral hearing on land charges and to vary the order to "publish words". The latter was refused as
"totally without merit". At the hearing A was actually told that he probably could publish words, for example, in this
application, or in other national and international forums. A costs order was made against A.
49. At the hearing on land charges A was told, by a judge of equal standing, that he could "publish words" in an action not
in the other order. A said that it was an offence to evict people from a trust of land without a court order. His application
was refused as "totally without merit" and, since another application for permission to "publish words" was also "totally
without merit" the court made an extended civil restraint order against A.
50. A has applied for permission to appeal the extended civil restraint order because (i) all the legal actions are a result of
discrimination against a person with a disability, (ii) "mutual family support" shows no respect for the rights of peasants
and people working in rural areas, and is modern slavery, (iii) A's family are victims of offences under national law, and (iv)
the courts are making contradictory decisions - for example, A was told that final orders for persons to cease to occupy a
trust of land can be made after final orders on a trial of the matter, violating the statutory restrictions.
- Please ensure that the information you include here does not exceed the space provided -
Page 155 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
F. Statement of alleged violation(s) of the Convention and/or Protocols and relevant arguments
61. Article invoked
Explanation
8/13
A4
A5, A6, A8, A13, A1P1
A6, A8, A13, A1P1
A4, A5, A6, A8, A10, A13, A14,
A1P1, A1P12
A4, A5, A6, A8, A10, A13, A14,
A1P1, A1P12
22 years of work as "mutual family support" is given no rights, no property value, and
left unpaid, equivalent to a form of modern slavery or servitude, which violates the A4
restriction that "no one shall be held in slavery or servitude".
A was maliciously arrested for alleged burglary during which A's kitchen door was
vandalized so that it could not open, probably an offence. A was arrested again and
evicted on the basis of a Land Registry title that, alleges A, fraudulently or wrongly fails
to declare that A, his children, were in actual possession of the trust of land, contrary to
A6, A8, A13, A1P1. Then A's 2nd arrest and eviction without a court order or A5 (3) right
to a trial (or A6 right to a hearing) puts A, his family, at a significant disadvantage in civil
proceedings. The motive of the other party was to improve their chances of success.
A's land charges ought to be allowed to protect A from said violations of A5, A6, A8, A13
and A1P1.
A's mother's 14 February 2021 letter ought to be at least considered for A6 compliance.
With no clear A13 remedy for her from the initial trial (simply left in possession) except
extravagant costs against A has frightened her and she is very reluctant to attend court.
A's right under the Rent Acts was brought before the courts but A was told it was not
properly pleaded and now can't be under "res judicata" in violation of A1P1. To use the
term "persons unknown" and fail to give A any address on court orders violates A8.
Not only did the court fail to recognize that there was an offence under national law
from violating the restriction in article 13 of the trusts of land and appointment of
trustees act 1996 not to cause occupiers of a trust of land to cease to occupy without
their consent or a court order, and that anyone who violates said restriction is guilty of
an offence under section 1 of the protection from eviction act 1977, but also the court
made an order to cause a person to cease to occupy in violation of article 13.4 (a), (b)
and (c) of the trusts of land and appointment of trustees act 1996. A complains that
violates all of the European Convention rights balanced within and likewise the United
Nations Rights of Peasants and People Working in Rural Areas. A's land charge ought to
have been allowed to "publish words" and prevent said violations.
In an appeal decision on 28 September 2015 A was told that the only acceptable legal
practise was to bring all matters, laws, and complaints before the court in 1 go. Please
picture this people farm trees and shrubs for many years. One day a person becomes
disabled. As a result the disabled person's legal status is revoked. The job with the land
appears forfeit. They are told that the agricultural work they did was not work and goes
unpaid. They have no tax status. The family is said not to legally exist at all. They are
ordered to bring legal action. So, A hires solicitors and barristers to bring an action.
Presumably the legal professionals brought all matters to the court at a trial. The court
decided that "mutual family support" had no value - contrary, says A, to the rights of
peasants and people working in rural areas, and producing a situation of modern slavery
or servitude - and made a "final order". A faces devastating costs. In the unholy mess
there is no order to cause the family to cease to occupy or to stop the agricultural work
which was half the story. From now on, the law of the land (and all Convention Rights
balanced within) restricts others from harassing the occupiers of a trust of land, causing
them to cease to occupy. Not only would a court order be required, but also on the
making of an order the court is to have regard to section 13 4 (a) to (c) of the trusts of
land and appointment of trustees act 1996. That requires at least another hearing.
At another hearing it is a gross violation to tell A that every matter could and should
have been brought before the court before, when future events did not happen, but
now the existence of a previous trial and "final order" means there's no restriction on
Page 156 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
Statement of alleged violation(s) of the Convention and/or Protocols and relevant arguments (continued)
62. Article invoked
A1P1
A1P1
A14, A1P12
A41
Explanation
the court to make another "final order" for evictions.
That error not only violates national law but all of the human rights balanced within.
If the courts refuse to give effect to statutory restrictions, then a person ought to be
able to hold land charges to help the courts to do so, and to protect them from said
violations.
9/13
To explain a bit more, the trial judge obviously decided that he was not going to make
any order to cause any person to cease to occupy the trust of land (such as A's mother)
and therefore, although he probably should have, the court was not obliged to have
regard to section 13, 4 (a) to (c) of the act. Which was only discovered due to a trial.
If the court decides to make an order to cause any person to cease to occupy, it is to
have regard to section 13, 4 (a) to (c) of the act.
On the said section 13, the 4 (a) intentions were to provide life interests for V, and A,
and a "buy out" for everyone else, as set out in points 25 to 30 above. On 4 (b) the
purpose for which the land is held is for occupation and to carry on agricultural and
other work. On 4 (c) the wishes and circumstances of beneficiaries are for those
resident to carry on the farm, and for others to receive the benefit of a "buy out".
A also says that the 4 (a) to (c) circumstances started off since 1996, and involved the
inheritance act, that by now ought to be protected by limitations. It hurts people's
rights to produce tax returns without tax relief, and residents as not resident, and as if
there was no "buy out", and declare nobody else in actual possession to Land Registry.
For protection from said violations A should be allowed a land charge.
A says in passing that at a trial the court ought to have recognized detrimental reliance
from relying on encouragement to expect legal ownership at the paternal farm, thereby
giving up any opportunity to succeed to the maternal farm instead. Crops could have
been ploughed up, farmhouse locks changed, Police involved, and evictions and court
proceedings since 1996. V had a right to provision from G that could have gone to the
maternal farm. Therefore, A alleges that the courts violated A1P1.
The maternal landlords knew that A, his children, remained resident at the maternal
family home even after A's mother moved out. The existence of other family members
ought not to make it "unequivocal" that the family's 35 year lease was surrendered by
"operation of law". The lease is what remains of valuable family assets that there is no
reason to merely surrender without writing. The court has violated A1P1.
A says that it discriminated against a person with a disability to be removed from any
legal status at his own house, and business, in the way that A's father was removed as
representative on the basis of suffering MND. If A's father was not a person with a
disability there was no reason to remove him, and use his removal to deny his family's
legal status. He would not complete tax returns without tax relief, or not declaring
people in actual possession, or deny a buy out was initiated, or demand legal action,
because people don't fail to apply tax relief for their work, or declare what they know,
or forget inheritance rights, or apply to courts for legal action against themselves.
A's land charge ought to be allowed to protect the family from discrimination against
people with disabilities under the UN Convention and it's Optional Protocol.
A claims just satisfaction and "restitutio in integrum".
- Please ensure that the information you include here does not exceed the space provided -
Page 157 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
G. Compliance with admisibility criteria laid down in Article 35 § 1 of the Convention
10/13
For each complaint, please confirm that you have used the available effective remedies in the country concerned, including appeals,
and also indicate the date when the final decision at domestic level was delivered and received, to show that you have complied with
the six-month time-limit.
63. Complaint
Information about remedies used and the date of the final decision
35 year lease point
1. Defences to maternal landlord's action from 2018 onwards.
Land charges point
2. A was told that the lease was surrendered on 24 January 2020.
3. Permission to appeal refused 1 February 2021.
1. Extension of time for permission to appeal refused 3 November 2020.
2. Permission to appeal refused 10 February 2021.
The six month time limit expires on 1 August 2021 for the 35 year lease, and 10 August
2021 for the land charges point. It is now 9 July 2021.
- Please ensure that the information you include here does not exceed the space provided -
Page 158 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
64. Is or was there an appeal or remedy available to you which you have not used?
65. If
Yes
you answered Yes above, please state which appeal or remedy you have not used and explain why not
No
H. Information concerning other international proceedings (if any)
66. Have you raised any of these complaints in another procedure of international investigation or
settlement?
Yes
No
11/13
67. If you answered Yes above, please give a concise summary of the procedure (complaints submitted, name of the international body
and date and nature of any decisions given)
68. Do you (the applicant) currently have, or have you previously had, any other applications before the
Court?
Yes
No
69. If you answered Yes above, please write the relevant application number(s) in the box below
57135/14, 36454/15, 40891/15, 17317/16, 33646/17, 29346/18, 44978/18, 29525/20
Page 159 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
I. List of accompanying documents
You should enclose full and legible copies of all documents. No documents will be returned to you. It is thus in your interests to
submit copies, not originals. You MUST:
- arrange the documents in order by date and by set of proceedings;
- number the pages consecutively; and
12/13
- NOT staple, bind or tape the documents.
70. In the box below, please list the documents in chronological order with a concise description. Indicate the page number at which
each document may be found
1. 1986 February 9 letter to solicitors
p.
1.1
2.
1992 April 6 solicitors notes
р.
1.2
3.
1992 April 6 trust of land
р.
1.3
4.
1995 March 6 lease for 35 years
p.
2.8
5.
2009 March 24 order for court proceedings
р.
3.20
6.
2010 September 22 judgment to join A's mother to court proceedings
p.
3.21
7.
2010 September 22 order to join A's mother to court proceedings
p.
3.25
8.
2010 October 22 letter from A's mother to join proceedings as Claimant
р.
3.29
9.
2011 December 20 judgment to strike out or assign proprietary claim
р.
3.31
10. 2011 December 20 order to strike out or assign proprietary claim
p.
3.42
11. 2013 May 22 judgment from trial of claim
12. 2013 July 24 order from trial of claim
13. 2013 August 31 council tax bill
14. 2013/2014 pictures of house, land and burial ground
15. 2013 November 5 order refusing permission to appeal
16. 2014 February 13 judgment refusing permission to appeal
p.
3.45
р.
3.54
p.
4.56
p.
4.57
p.
4.73
p.
4.75
17. 2014 February 13 order refusing permission to appeal
p.
4.80
18. 2014 February 24 land charge
р.
5.82
19. 2014 July 22 form FR1 to register the trust of land at Land Registry for the 1st time
р.
5.84
20. 2014 August 4 judgment to cancel land charges
p.
6.92
21. 2014 August 6 order to cancel land charges
p.
6.97
22. 2015 March 10 judgment on eviction
23. 2015 March 10 order on eviction
24. 2015 March 23 judgment on eviction
25. 2015 March 23 order on eviction.
p.
7.99
p.
7.111
р.
8.112
p.
8.136
Page 160 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
Any other comments
Do you have any other comments about your application?
71. Comments
13/13
The land charges ought to be renewed, and the provisions set out in points 25 to 30 given effect. I am in the process of
raising all complaints, including any beyond any 6 month time limit, with the United Nations Committee on the Rights of
Persons with Disabilities under the Optional Protocol.
There are videos of the house and land at https://goo.gl/2wf2tr
Declaration and signature
I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the information I have given in the present application form is correct.
72. Date
09072021
e.g. 27/09/2015
D
D
M M Y
Y
Y
Y
The applicant(s) or the applicant's representative(s) must sign in the box below.
73. Signature(s)
Applicant(s)
Representative(s)
- tick as appropriate
Confirmation of correspondent
If there is more than one applicant or more than one representative, please give the name and address of the one person with whom
the Court will correspond. Where the applicant is represented, the Court will correspond only with the representative (lawyer or non-
lawyer).
74. Name and address of
Applicant
Representative
- tick as appropriate
The completed application form should be
signed and sent by post to:
The Registrar
European Court of Human Rights
Council of Europe
67075 STRASBOURG CEDEX
FRANCE
893669e1-66ca-4653-b9e0-2de2561a694b
181 of 163
EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS
COUR EUROPÉENNE DES DROITS DE L'HOMME
ECHR-LE11.00R
MLA/MCL/jl
Application no. 36588/21
St John Webster v. the United Kingdom
T: +33 (0)3 88 41 20 18
F: +33 (0)3 88 41 27 30
www.echr.coe.int
Mr Rupert J. R. St John Webster
Marrow
Bondip Farmhouse
Kingsdon
SOMERTON TA11 7LE
-
UNITED KINGDOM
07/10/2021
The European Court of Human Rights, sitting in a single-judge formation, decided to declare the
application referred to above inadmissible.
Please find enclosed the decision reached by the Court.
This decision is final and is not subject to appeal, whether this be to a Committee, a Chamber or the
Grand Chamber. Consequently, no further correspondence will be sent by the Court in connection
with this case. In accordance with the Court's archiving practice, the file will be kept no longer than
one year after the date of the decision.
The Registry of the European Court of Human Rights
COUNCIL OF EUROPE
EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS
COUR EUROPÉENNE DES DROITS DE L'HOMME
COUNCIL OF EUROPE
67075 STRASBOURG CEDEX
FRANCE
CONSEIL DE L'EUROPE
CONSEIL DE L'EUROPE
67075 STRASBOURG CEDEX
Page 162163
EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS
COUR EUROPÉENNE DES DROITS DE L'HOMME
DECISION
CASE OF ST JOHN WEBSTER V. THE UNITED KINGDOM
(Application no. 36588/21)
introduced on 9 July 2021
The European Court of Human Rights, sitting on 30 September 2021 in a single-judge formation
pursuant to Articles 24 § 2 and 27 of the Convention, has examined the application as submitted.
The Court finds in the light of all the material in its possession and in so far as the matters
complained of are within its competence, that they do not disclose any appearance of a violation of
the rights and freedoms set out in the Convention or the Protocols thereto and that the admissibility
criteria set out in Articles 34 and 35 of the Convention have not been met.
The Court declares the application inadmissible.
th. Hereford
Armen Harutyunyan
Judge
COUNCIL OF EUROPE
CONSEIL DE L'EUROPE
Page 163 of 163
