Land Registry
Official Copy
This copy may not be the
same size as the original.
stry
Juments
1
2
DL
Please complete and lodge this form in duplicate.
If the application is a first registration application and you supply the original and a certified copy of a statutory
declaration, stamp duty land tax certificate, subsisting lease, subsisting charge or the latest document of title
(for example any conveyance to the applicant) we will return the original; if a certified copy is not supplied, we
may retain the original document and it may be destroyed.
If the application is not a first registration then we only need certified copies of deeds or documents you send
to us with Land Registry application forms. Once we have made a copy of the documents you send to us, they
will be destroyed, this applies to both originals and certified copies.
Property address including postcode (if any):
The Priory, Ash Priors, Taunton, Somerset, TA4 3ND
Documents lodged with this form
-
-
The first column is for Land Registry use only. If Land Registry places an asterisk '*' in this
column, it shows that we have kept that document.
Please number the documents in sequence; copies should also be numbered and listed as
separate documents.
You need not list the names on land charges searches. Simply enter the search number.
Date
Document type
Parties
Land
Registry
use only
Item
no
1
31-03-1950
COPY CONVEYANCE
2
26-01-1990
DUPLICATE CONVEYANCE
3
26-01-1990
COPY DUPLICATE
4
06-04-1992
CONVEYANCE
CONVEYANCE
5
06-04-1992
COPY CONVEYANCE
6
7
10-02-1996
02-05-1996
8
06-02-2008
DEATH CERTIFICATE
DEED OF APPOINTMENT
OF NEW TRUSTEES
DEED OF GRANT
9
06-02-2008
COPY DEED OF GRANT
10 21-08-2007
DEATH CERTIFICATE
PR's Mrs M E Savill-Onley (1)
A St J Webster (2)
A St J Webster (1)
Valentine Webster Ltd (2)
A St J Webster (1)
Valentine Webster Ltd (2)
A St J Webster (1)
A St J Webster & V HM Webster
(2)
A St J Webster (1)
A St J Webster & V H M Webster
(2)
A St J Webster
V H M Webster (1)
A V Ashcroft & J F Penley (2)
A V Ashcroft & J F Penley (1)
A V Ashcroft & Others (2)
C D Coveney & R J Clarke (3)
A V Ashcroft & J F Penley (1)
A V Ashcroft & Others (2)
C D Coveney & RJ Clarke (3)
V H M Webster
© Crown copyright (ref: LR/SC.3) 06/14
Laserform International 7/14
Page 116 of 140
Land
Registry
use only
Item
по
Date
Document type
Parties
WARNING
If you dishonestly enter information or make a statement that you know is, or might be, untrue or misleading, and intend by doing
so to make a gain for yourself or another person, or to cause loss or the risk of loss to another person, you may 
commit the
offence of fraud under section 1 of the Fraud Act 2006, the maximum penalty for which is 10 years' 
imprisonment or an 
unlimited
fine, or both.
Failure to complete this form with proper care may result in a loss of protection under the Land Registration Act 2002 if, as a result,
a mistake is made in the register.
Under section 66 of the Land Registration Act 2002 most documents (including this form) kept by the registrar relating to an
application to the registrar or referred to in the register are open to public inspection and copying. If you 
believe a document
contains prejudicial information, you may apply for that part of the document to be made 
exempt using Form EX1, under rule 
136
of the Land Registration Rules 2003.
2
Page 117 of 140
Land Registry
Official Copy
This copy may not be the
same size as the original.
stry
n for first registration
You must lodge the documents of title with this application; these
must be listed on Form DL.
If you need more room than is provided for in a panel, and your
software allows, you can expand any panel in the form. Alternatively
use continuation sheet CS and attach it to this form.
Land Registry is unable to give legal advice but our website
www.landregistry.gov.uk provides guidance on Land Registry
applications. This includes public guides and practice guides (aimed
at conveyancers) that can also be obtained from any Land Registry
office.
See www.landregistry.gov.uk/contact-us/offices if you are unsure
which Land Registry office to send this application to.
Conveyancer is a term used in this form. It is defined in rule 217A,
Land Registration Rules 2003 and includes persons authorised
under the Legal Services Act 2007 to provide reserved legal services
relating to land registration and includes solicitors and licensed
conveyancers.
Where there is more than one local
authority serving an area, enter the
one to which council tax or business
rates are normally paid.
Insert address including postcode (if
any) or other description of the
property, for example 'land adjoining
2 Acacia Avenue'.
On registering a rentcharge, profit a
prendre in gross or franchise, insert a
description, for example 'Rentcharge
(or as appropriate) over 2 Acacia
Avenue'.
Place 'X' in the appropriate box. Only
use the third option where the
property has an address and is
fenced on the ground.
Enter reference, for example 'edged
red'.
Enter nature and date of document.
2
3
FR1
LAND REGISTRY USE ONLY
Record of fees paid
Particulars of under/over payments
Reference number
Fees debited £14 11:54
Local authority serving the property:
Somerset/Taunton Deane
Property:
0.PE280
ジ
017503#7595 0001
1st REG. $680.00
The Priory, Ash Priors, Taunton, Somerset as the same
is more particularly described in a Conveyance dated
6 April 1992 and made between A St J Webster (1) and
A St J Webster and V H M Webster (2)
The extent of the land to be registered can be clearly identified on
the current edition of the Ordnance Survey map from
☐ the attached plan and shown:
(✗)
the plan attached to the:
Conveyance of 6 April
1992
Place 'X' in the appropriate box.
the address shown in panel 2
The class of title applied for is
(✗)
absolute freehold
☐ possessory freehold
absolute leasehold
good leasehold
possessory leasehold
© Crown copyright (ref: LR/SC.3) 10/12
Laserform International 10/12
Page 118 of 140
See fees calculator at
www.landregistry.gov.uk/professional
/fees/fees-calculator
5
Application, priority and fees
Applications in priority
Price paid/Value
order
(£)
Fees paid
(£)
First registration of the
freehold/leasehold estate
Tol exceeding
1,000,000.00
400.00
Total fees (£)
400.00
Place 'X' in the appropriate box.
The fee will be charged to the
account specified in panel 7.
Fee payment method
(✗) cheque made payable to 'Land Registry*
direct debit, under an agreement with Land Registry
Provide the full name(s) of the
person(s) applying for first
registration. Where a conveyancer
lodges the application, this must be
the name(s) of the client(s), not the
conveyancer.
Complete as appropriate where the
applicant is a company. Also, for an
overseas company, unless an
arrangement with Land Registry
exists, lodge either a certificate in
Form 7 in Schedule 3 to the Land
Registration Rules 2003 or a certified
copy of the constitution in English or
Welsh, or other evidence permitted
by rule 183 of the Land Registration
Rules 2003.
If you are paying by direct debit, this
will be the account charged.
This is the address to which we will
normally send requisitions and return
documents. However if you insert an
email address, we will use this
whenever possible.
Place 'X' in the appropriate box.
In this and panel 10, each proprietor
may give up to three addresses for
service, one of which must be a
postal address whether or not in the
UK (including the postcode, if any).
The others can be any combination
of a postal address, a UK DX box
number or an electronic address.
Where the applicant is more than one
person, place 'X' in the appropriate
box.
6
The applicant:
7
1. Alison Virginia Ashcroft
2. John Francis Penley
For UK incorporated companies/LLPs
Registered number of company or limited liability partnership
including any prefix:
For overseas companies
(a) Territory of incorporation:
(b) Registered number in the United Kingdom including any prefix:
This application is sent to Land Registry by
Key number (if applicable): 6620735
Name: Winterbotham Smith Penley LLP
Address or UK DX box number:
26 Long Street
Dursley
Gloucestershire
GL11 4JA
DX 47151 Dursley
Email address: mail@wspsolicitors.com
Reference:
JFP/D080301.WEBSTER
Fax no: 01453 548527
Phone no: 01453 541940
The address(es) for service for each proprietor of the estate to be
entered in the register is
the address of the property (where this is a single postal
address)
(x) the following address(es):
1. The Priory, Ash Priors, Taunton, Somerset,
TA4 3ND
2. 26 Long Street, Dursley, Glos, GL11 4JA
Where the applicant is more than one person
they hold the property on trust for themselves as joint tenants
they hold the property on trust for themselves as tenants in
common in equal shares
2
Page 119 of 140
Complete as necessary.
The registrar will enter a Form A
restriction in the register unless:
an 'X' is placed:
in the first box, or
in the third box and the
details of the trust or of the
trust instrument show that
the applicants are to hold
the property on trust for
themselves alone as joint
tenants, or
it is clear from completion of a
form JO lodged with this
application that the applicants
are to hold the property on trust
for themselves alone as joint
tenants.
Please refer to Land Registry's Public
Guide 18-Joint property ownership
and Practice Guide 24 - Private
trusts of land for further guidance.
These guides are available on our
website www.landregistry.gov.uk
(✗) they hold the property on trust:
as trustees of land
Where a charge has an MD
reference we will ignore an address
given in this panel unless the charge
is in favour of a United Kingdom bank
and neither the charge form nor any
agreement we have with the lender
specifies an address for service.
For permitted addresses see note to
panel 8.
Complete as appropriate where the
proprietor of the charge is a
company. Also, for an overseas
company, unless an arrangement
with Land Registry exists, lodge
either a certificate in Form 7 in
Schedule 3 to the Land Registration
Rules 2003 or a certified copy of the
constitution in English or Welsh, or
other evidence permitted by rule 183
of the Land Registration Rules 2003.
If this statement applies (i) place 'X'
in the box and (ii) enclose Form DI.
Rule 28 of the Land Registration
Rules 2003 sets out the disclosable
overriding interests that you must tell
us about.
Place 'X' in the appropriate box.
10 Name and address(es) for service for the proprietor of any charge
to be entered in the register:
For UK incorporated companies/LLPs
Registered number of company or limited liability partnership
including any prefix:
For overseas companies
(a) Territory of incorporation:
(b) Registered number in the United Kingdom including any prefix:
11 Disclosable overriding interests
Disclosable overriding interests affect the estate.
12 Certificate
The title is based on the title documents listed in Form DL which
are all those under the control of the applicant.
Details of rights, interests and claims affecting the estate (other
than non-disclosable interests falling within rule 28(2) of the Land
Registration Rules 2003) known to the applicant are, where
applicable, disclosed in the title documents and Form DI if
accompanying this application.
(✗) The applicant knows of no other such rights, interests and
claims. Only the applicant is in actual possession of the
property or in receipt of the rent and profits from the property.
3
Page 120 of 140
If applicable complete the second
statement with details of the
interest(s); for interests disclosed
only by searches do not include
those shown on local land charge
searches. Certify any interests
disclosed by searches that do not
affect the estate being registered.
The applicant knows only of the following additional such
rights, interests and claims, including those of any person
(other than the applicant) in actual possession of the property
or in receipt of the rent and profits from the property:
If you do not place 'X' in the box we
will assume that you have examined
the applicant's title or are satisfied
that it has been examined in the
usual way.
13 Examination of title
I/we have not fully examined the applicant's title to the
estate, including any appurtenant rights, or satisfied
myself/ourselves that it has been fully examined by a
conveyancer in the usual way prior to this application.
Full details of the evidence of
identity that is required can be
found in Practice Guide 67 and in
Public Guide 20.
The requirement of registration is
contained in section 4, Land
Registration Act 2002. Further
guidance is contained in Practice
Guide 1.
Place 'X' in the appropriate box.
Conveyancer is defined in rule 217A,
Land Registration Rules 2003 and
includes persons authorised under
the Legal Services Act 2007 to
provide reserved legal services
relating to land registration and
includes solicitors and licensed
conveyancers.
14
Confirmation of identity
When registering transfers, charges, leases and other dispositions
of land, Land Registry relies on the steps that conveyancers take,
where appropriate, to verify the identity of their clients. These
checks reduce the risk of property fraud.
Where a person was not represented by a conveyancer, Land
Registry requires 'evidence of identity' in respect of that person,
except where the first alternative in panel 15(2) applies.
'Evidence of identity' is evidence provided in accordance with any
current direction made by the Chief Land Registrar under section
100(4) of the Land Registration Act 2002 for the purpose of
confirming a person's identity.
If this application is to register a transfer, lease or charge, dated
on or after 10 November 2008 and the requirement of registration
applies, complete one of the following
I am a conveyancer, and I have completed panel 15
I am not a conveyancer, and I have completed panel 16
15 Where the application is sent to Land Registry by a conveyancer
(1) Details of conveyancer acting
If you are sending an application to register a transfer, lease or
charge, for each party to each disposition that is to be registered,
state in the table below the details of the conveyancer (if any) who
represented them.
Page 121 of 140
Place 'X' in the box in the second
column if the person or firm who is
sending the application to Land
Registry represented that party in the
transaction. Otherwise complete the
details in the third column. If the party
is not represented insert 'none' in the
third column.
Where a party is not represented by a conveyancer you must also
complete (2) below.
Name of transferor,
landlord, transferee,
tenant, borrower or lender
Conveyancer's name,
address and reference
Reference:
Reference:
Reference:
Place 'X' in the appropriate box(es).
Insert the name of each
unrepresented transferor, landlord,
transferee, tenant, borrower or lender
for whom you give this confirmation.
(2) Evidence of identity
Where any transferor, landlord, transferee, tenant, borrower or
lender listed in (1) was not represented by a conveyancer
I confirm that I am satisfied that sufficient steps have been
taken to verify the identity of
Evidence of identity is defined in
panel 14. Full details of the
evidence of identity that is
required can be found in Practice
Guide 67.
If the party is not represented insert
'none' in the second column.
and that they are the transferor, landlord, transferee, tenant,
borrower or lender listed in (1) (as appropriate)
I enclose evidence of identity in respect of each
unrepresented transferor, landlord, transferee, tenant,
borrower or lender for whom I have not provided the
confirmation above
16 Where the application is sent to Land Registry by someone who is
not a conveyancer
(1) Details of conveyancer acting
If you are sending an application to register a transfer, lease or
charge (ie a mortgage), for each party to each disposition that is
to be registered, state in the table below the details of the
conveyancer (if any) who represented them.
You must also complete (2) below.
Name of transferor, landlord,
transferee, tenant, borrower
or lender
Conveyancer's name, address
and reference
5
Reference:
Page 122 of 140
Reference:
Reference:
Place 'X' in the appropriate box(es).
Evidence of identity is defined in
panel 14. Full details of the
evidence of identity that is
required can be found in Public
Guide 20.
(2) Evidence of identity
for each applicant named in panel 6 is enclosed
for each unrepresented transferor, landlord, transferee,
tenant, borrower or lender listed in (1) is enclosed
17
If a conveyancer is acting for the
applicant, that conveyancer must
sign.
If no conveyancer is acting, the
applicant (and if the applicant is more
than one person then each of them)
must sign.
Signature of conveyancer: WSP Solicitors
Date:
OR
Signature of applicant:
Date:
WARNING
If you dishonestly enter information or make a statement that you know is, or might be, untrue or misleading, and intend by doing
so to make a gain for yourself or another person, or to cause loss or the risk of loss to another person, you may commit 
the
offence of fraud under section 1 of the Fraud Act 2006, the maximum penalty for which is 10 years' imprisonment or an unlimited
fine, or both.
Failure to complete this form with proper care may result in a loss of protection under the Land Registration Act 2002 if, as a
result, a mistake is made in the register.
Under section 66 of the Land Registration Act 2002 most documents (including this form) kept by the registrar relating to an
application to the registrar or referred to in the register are open to public inspection and copying. If you believe a document
contains prejudicial information, you may apply for that part of the document to be made exempt using 
Form EX1, under rule 
136
of the Land Registration Rules 2003.
6
Page 123 of 140
For office use only
Licence no. and type
Needs confirmation
of landowner and
Ministry of
JUSTICE from vicar.
15-09-0843
ECEIVE
17 AUG 205
Q3
Q4
Application for a licence for the removal of buried human remains.
(including cremated remains) in England & Wales
Please complete this form in BLOCK capitals. Failure to do so may result in a delay to your
application.
Please refer to the attached guidance notes if you are unsure about how to answer a question.
Q7
B4
The application will normally be decided within 20 days of receipt by the Ministry of Justice. However, if the
application needs to be treated urgently, please indicate why
Reason for urgency:
PART A
Q1
Full name of the deceased:
VALENTINE ST JOHN WEBSTER
Date of Death
16/09/06
Age at Death:
64
Q2
Family circumstances of the deceased at time of death
[a] Was the deceased: Married ✓ Widowed ☐ Civil Partner ☐ Divorced ☐ Single ☐
Please include any additional information that you believe should be taken into account in a covering letter on the
sheet provided.
[b] is the spouse or civil partner of the deceased still alive? Yes ✓ No ☐ Not Applicable ☐ Don't know ☐
[c] Did the deceased have any children? Yes ☑ No ☐ If Yes, how many are still alive 3
[d] Are the parents of the deceased still alive? Yes ☐ No ✓ If Yes, how many are still allve
[e] Did the deceased have any brothers/sisters? Yes ✓ No ☐ If Yes, how many are still alive 3
Q3
Please indicate whether the remains of the deceased are: cremated ☐ not cremated ☑
If the remains are not cremated, please state the cause of death:
MOTOR NEURONE DISEASE
Q4
Following the exhumation of the remains, is the intention to:
[a] Return the remains to the same grave: Yes ☐ No ☑
or another grave in the same cemetery: Yes ☐ No ☑
[b] Remove non cremated remains to another cemetery in England or Wales: Yes ☑ No ☐
outside England or Wales: Yes ☐ No ☐
for cremation: Yes ☐ No ☐
If you have answered Yes to any of the boxes in [b], please provide written confirmation from the person in charge
of the cemetery, churchyard or crematorium where the remains are to be re-buried or cremated.
For remains going abroad, please provide written confirmation from the airline or shipping agents that they are
prepared to transport them.
Page 124 of 140
Q4
[cont]
[c] Please indicate whether the remains will be re-interred in ground consecrated in accordance with the
rites of the Church of England: Yes ✓ No ☐
[d] To scatter or retain remains that are already cremated: Yes ☐ No ☑
[e] To examine the remains or contents of the coffin/other container: Yes ☐ No ☑
Q5
Applicant: name, address and contact details
Q6
JENNIFER ST JOHN WEBSTER, KINGSDON NURSERY, KINGSDON, SOMERTON,
SOMERSET
Post Code:
TALL FLE
07890 586941
Daytime telephone number: 01935 840232
email address.
If you would prefer the licence to be sent to someone else, please provide their name, address and contact
details
Daytime telephone number:
Post Code:
email address:_
Q7
[a] Are you the nearest surviving relative? Yes ✓ No □
Q8
[b] Please indicate your relationship to the deceased:
spouse ☑ civil partner ☐ parent ☐ child ☐ brother/sister ☐ other ☐
If other please explain why you, and not any of the surviving relatives, are making the application on the
sheet provided at page 4.
Is there any other relative of the same degree of kinship to the deceased (i.e. child, parent, brother/sister)?
No
'
No 
☑
Yes
If Yes please ensure they have signed the declaration at Q9
[a] Are all the family members listed at Q2 aware of this application (ie. spouse, parent(s) children, etc)?
Yes ☑A: No ☑
If No please indicate the name and relationship of those at Q2 [b] to [e] who are unaware of the application:
. RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
SON OF APPLICANT & DECEASED
[b] Do you know of any person (relative or otherwise) who may object to the proposal to remove the
remains or is likely to do so? Yes ☑ No ☐
If Yes please provide further details of the person or persons who may object, including their contact details,
relationship to the deceased, and reasons for objection, if known, on the sheet provided at page 4.
Page 125 of 140
Q9
Q10
APPLICANT'S DECLARATION
I apply for the Secretary of State's licence for the removal of the remains of the deceased person named
above from the place in which they are at present interred.
I hereby declare that the information I have supplied within this application and accompanying documents
is true to the best of my knowledge and belief.
I attach any and all document(s) or consent(s) required under sections Q4, Q7, Q8 and Q10.
Signature of applicant:
: Jennifer St John Webster
Relationship to the deceased:
WIDOW
Signature(s) of consent of other relatives (if required under Q7)
Date: 11
11 August 2015.
1.
Name:
Signature:
Relationship to the deceased:
_Telephone contact details:
II.
Name:
Signature:
Relationship to the deceased:
_Telephone contact details:
III.
Name:
Signature:
_Telephone contact details:
Date:
Date:
Date:
Relationship to the deceased:
Please indicate if any of those signing are under 18.
continue on the sheet provided at page 4 if necessary
GRAVE OWNER'S DECLARATION
I am the registered owner of the grave plot in which the deceased is interred and give my consent to:
The opening of the grave: Yes ✓ No ☐
Any necessary removal of the headstone [if applicable]: Yes ✓ No ☐
Name:
Relationship to the deceased:
Date:
13 August 2015
Signature:
_Telephone contact details:
continue on the sheet provided at page 4 if necessary
If the applicant is not the registered owner, arrangements should be made for this question to be completed and
signed by the appropriate person. If details of the owner are not known, or that person is not willing to consent to
the application, please explain in a covering letter.
If you are unsure who the grave owner is, please ask the relevant Burial Authority to help complete this question.
Page 126 of 140
38
Additional Information
If you need to provide further information relating to Q2, Q4, Q7 and Q8, or consents for Q9 and Q10 please use
this page.
[Please indicate which question you are responding to in the left hand column.]
MY SON, RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER,
THE GROUNDS OF WHICH MY LATE HUSBAND
IN THE COURTS
AND APPEAL COURTS,
IS AGAINST THE SALE OF THE HOUSE, ON
IS BURIED. HE HAS BEEN FIGHTING
AGAINST THE REST OF THE FAMILY OVER
THE WILL OF HIS GRANDMOTHER (MY LATE HUSBAND'S MOTHER) SINCE SHE DIED
HE BELIEVES
"THAT
IN 2007
LOST THIS COURT BATTLE AND
HE SHOULD HAVE INHERITED
THE HOUSE. HE
THE SALE OF THE HOUSE IS NOW UNDERWAY.
EXHIUME THE REMAINS OF
MY LATE
HENCE THE NEW BUYER'S REQUEST TO
HUSBAND. THERE IS NOW A COURT INJUNCTION AGAINST MY SON EVEN
VISITING
THIS HOUSE.
WE BELIEVE HE WILL DO EVERYTHING IN HIS POWER TO STOP THE SALE
OF THE HOUSE, INCLUDING USING THIS ISSUE OF THE EXHUMATION OF MY
LATE HUSBAND'S REMAINS. WE BELIEVE HE IS MENTALLY UNSTABLE OVEN.
ALL OF THIS. FOR THESE REASONS,
NOT TO INFORM HIM OF WHAT
WE HAVE ALL ABREED THAT IT IS BEST
WE ARE DOING.
This application should now be sent to the manager of the cemetery, crematorium or churchyard
where the deceased is presently interred to complete PART B.
Page 127 of 140
B1
PART B
Name and address of the burial ground where the remains are currently interred:
THE PRIORY
ASH PRIORS
TAUNTON
Post Code: TA43ND
B2
Are there other remains within the grave plot?
Yes ☐ No ☑
Can the remains be removed without disturbing any other
remains?
Yes ✓ No ☐
If the removal is liable to disturb the remains of
any other person(s) a separate form must be
completed in respect of each set of remains,
together with relevant consents from the nearest
surviving relatives. Disturbance includes any
movement of the remains or their container.
B3
B4
B5
B6
Is the grave a registered war grave? Yes ☐ No
✓
Is the ground in which the remains are
presently interred consecrated according
to the rites of the Church of England?
Yes ☐ No ☑
This question refers only to interments in England. Please note
that if the answer to questions Q4[c] and B4 are Yes then a MoJ
licence is not required provided the remains are to be re-interred in
a different grave in ground consecrated according to the rites of
the Church of England. In this case, the appropriate authority is a
faculty.
If the remains are not cremated please provide the name and address of the District Council Environmental
Health Office in whose area the remains are interred:
TAUNTON DEANE DISTRICT COUNCIL
THE DEANE HOUSE BELVEDERE RD.
Post Code: TAI THE
TAUNTON
Fax number:
01823
352 329
Please confirm that you have checked that answers have been given to the following questions in Part A:
Q4 Yes ✓ Q5 Yes ☑ Q7 Yes ☑ Q8 Yes ✓ Q9 Yes ☐ Q10 Yes ☐
If additional information is required, has all the necessary information been provided: Yes ☐ No ☐
B7
BURIAL AUTHORITY DECLARATION
I hereby declare on behalf of the Authority controlling the burial ground to which the application relates
that to the best of my knowledge the information given by the applicant is correct.
I also declare that this Authority has no objection to the grant of a licence and is not aware of an objection
by any other person.
Name: _
Name of Burial Authority / Church / other:
Signature:
Date: 14+
08-15
Address:
FAIR HILL
HOLY TRINITY CHURCH ASH PRIORS.
ASH PRIORS
Post Code: TA43NF
email address:
TAUNTON SOMERSET
Daytime telephone number:
After completion send this form to Coroners, Burials, Cremation and Inquiries Team, 102 Petty France, London SW1H 9AJ
Page 128 of 140
IN THE HIGH COURT
BETWEEN
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
-V-
1. John Penley
2. Winterbotham Smith Penley Solicitors
PARTICULARS OF CLAIM
Claimant
Defendants
1. The Claimant ("C") is an intended beneficiary under the April 1992 Trusts & Will of
Antony St John Webster (“AW") a farmer, and under a Trust, Settlement & Will of Valerie
St John Webster ("VW”), farmer's wife.
2. The First Defendant's ("D1") firm ("D2") was, along with Bevirs Solicitors, 1 of 2 firms
employed (presumably both had written retainers) to produce the 6 April 1992 Trusts and
VW's 27 April 1992 Settlement. D1 was appointed Trustee of AW Will Trust ("AWWT”)
and VW Will Trust ("VWWT").
3. The Second Defendant ("D2") is the now merged firm of Solicitors who employed D1 by
whom he administered AWWT.
4. D1, D2 and Bevirs Solicitors assumed responsibility to AW and VW as their clients. D1, D2
had long standing instructions for the administration of AW's estate because D1's father
then retired acted as AW's solicitor. D1's grandfather acted as AW's father's solicitor.
5. D1 acted as AW's Solicitor and employee to D2.
6. During early 1992, VW employed Bevirs Solicitors to ensure preparation of:
7.1 Wills of AW and VW;
7.2 A Trust for AW and VW;
7.3 A Settlement for VW;
7. On 25 February 1992 Bevirs organised a meeting between themselves, D1, VW and her 2
daughters. The meeting was attended by AW and 1 of his sons, C's father ("V"). Bevirs
advised that AW divide his freehold farmhouse from his farm. D1 discussed agricultural
relief to inheritance tax. AW was a dairy farmer for 40 years. V worked some of the farm
with Taunton Trees and maintained all of it. Bevirs advised that by AW and VW each
owning a ½ share of AW's farmhouse the value of each ½ share "would probably equate to the
value of the individual's relief".
8. Bevirs advice turned out to be wrong. D1, D2 administered it anyway causing loss and
damage to AW's beneficiaries.
Page 129 of 140
PARTICULARS
8.1. AW died on 10 February 1996. Around the end of the year 2005 D1, D2 began to
organise a 10 year tax charge against the AWWT. Accounts provided for the period
ended 24 August 2016 on page 1 show inheritance taxes of £7,340.40 were charged by
D1, D2 to the AWWT without agricultural relief or to "equate to the value of the individual's
relief".
8.2. VW died on 21 August 2007. On 2 June 2008 D1, D2 sent C's mother ("J") who was
the eldest surviving resident at AW's farmhouse after V died a letter “to confirm the
inheritance tax position on Valerie's estate". The letter determined inheritance tax claims of
£29,949.95 on VW's estate accruing 4% interest.
8.3. C's parents, and some of the time C, were "the farmers working from the farmhouse" that,
along with some acres of land, was put into the Bevirs Trust, a trust of land. The Trusts
of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 ("The Act”) section 13 read with the
Protection from Eviction Act 1977 section 1 on "Unlawful eviction and harassment of
occupier" makes it an offence to remove occupiers from a trust of land without their
consent or a court order. The £29,949.95 inheritance tax return did not "equate to the
value of the individual's relief" nor would D1, D2 claim agricultural relief nor apply the
protection of The Act for C's family's consent or a court order to cease to occupy.
Failing which D1, D2 knows or ought to know there was an offence. C avers loss,
damage and emotional distress to his mother, his father (who was alive in the year 2005),
C and his issue.
8.4. Knowing of C's family's as "the farmers working from the farmhouse" this omission was a
possible "Fraud by failing to disclose information" under section 3 and "Fraud by abuse
of position" under section 4 of The Fraud Act 2006. D1 had just replaced V as VW's
administrator primarily because V was disabled by motor neurone disease.
9. To return to 25 February 1992 when AW was advised by Bevirs to put his farm into trusts he
gave no instructions Instead, in relation to his affairs and the appointment of D1 as a
professional trustee, he did so before and on 6 April 1992 to ensure the preparation of:
9.1. Wills of AW and VW;
9.2. A trust;
9.3. A deal among beneficiaries on the future of his farm.
10. AW and VW expressed a mutual intention as follows:
10.1.
10.2.
10.3.
That V, C (and thereby J) were provided with Tenancies for Life in relation to
the farmhouse;
That V, C were provided with an opportunity to purchase "The Priory"
absolutely;
As a result of the purchase that other beneficiaries legally and beneficially own
the Agricultural Land that AW had given to VW's Settlement;
10.4. To ensure Inheritance Tax efficiency and maximise the financial benefit to be
received by all of AW's beneficiaries.
10.5. As far as possible to prevent any dispute following AW's or VW's death.
11. The Wills and Trust produced by D1, D2 neglected AW's & VW's mutual intentions.
11.1.
PARTICULARS
25 February 1992 VW in discussion (alone) with D1 “felt it would be appropriate to
leave a memorandum to the effect that if one member of the family wanted to live in the house, the other
Page 130 of 140
