IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
A
B
BEFORE:
MR JUSTICE MORGAN
Case No: CH-2020-000194
The Rolls Building
7 Rolls Buildings
Fetter Lane
London EC4A 1NL
Wednesday, 10 February 2021
BETWEEN:
MR RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
C
Appellant
D
- and -
(1) MR JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY
(2) MRS ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT
MR WEBSTER appeared in person
The Respondents did not attend and were not represented
E
PROCEEDINGS
Respondents
F
G
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol, BS32 4NE
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/ Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance
with relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the
case concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the
applicable information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the
internet, including social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making
sure that applicable restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a
fine and/or imprisonment. For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask
at the court office or take legal advice.
H
1
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 276 of 380
A
(10.30 am)
Wednesday, 10 February 2021
B
C
Ꭰ
E
F
G
H
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Yes, Mr Webster.
MR WEBSTER: Hello, good morning, sir.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Good morning. This is your application for an extension of
time for appealing, and I also have an application notice dated yesterday where
you are applying for this hearing to be adjourned. So, what do you ask me to do?
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir. In brief, I would like you, please, to adjourn this hearing, so
that all matters can be dealt with at the Court of Appeal.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Right. What other matters are intended to be before the
Court of Appeal? Can you tell me formally what matters you will take to the
Court of Appeal?
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir. There are two central points. The first point is the
application for permission to appeal the vacation of the Class C (iii) land charges,
some six years ago.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Yes.
MR WEBSTER: And the second --
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Just as we go along, so that I understand it, the one you
have just mentioned is the one that is listed before me today.
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Right.
MR WEBSTER: The second application is an application that, if you consider the
wording of the land charge, it says there's a -- it says various words in the land
charge and it's my opinion, and that of counsel and some other legal advice, sir,
that the words are - violate or contravene or breach another order by
--
His Honour Judge McCahill in 2015. In particular a clause was in that order,
clause 5(3)(c) which prohibits me, my agents, from publishing certain types of
words. There's a bit of a conflict between the application, the routes of appeal and
the order of His Honour Judge McCahill and
--
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Can I interrupt you again? Just I want to understand as we
go along. Judge McCahill made an order in 2015 and he said something in it
which I understand you to describe as an order that certain matters were not to be
published.
2
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 277 of 380
A
B
C
D
E
F
G
H
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Right, and in the land charges which you registered, and
which were vacated in 2014, there were certain words in those charges which
some people say did contravene the order and other people say did not contravene
the order. Is that right?
MR WEBSTER: That's almost exactly right, sir.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Right. But those charges have been removed more than six
years ago.
MR WEBSTER: They were removed (overspeaking).
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: So, if they stay removed and are not reinstated, then there is
no current problem about what they said six years ago, is there?
MR WEBSTER: I think there is, sir, because I can't tell you the words that I -- I can't, I
can't advocate to, to
--
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: I will authorise you to tell me.
MR WEBSTER: But if you do that, sir, the costs of Judge Matthews' hearing of £8,100
are then due back to me because you've made my application a success --
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: (overspeaking). Well, I mean, in order for you to explain
your point, if we need to know, and I stress that, then I would not prohibit you
from telling a High Court judge what the allegedly offending words say. I mean,
that is --
MR WEBSTER: But, sir
--
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: All right, well, that's the second point. Now, you say that
that point would cause you to go to the Court of Appeal, is that right?
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir. I've produced --
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: And appealing -- just help me, appealing against what order?
MR WEBSTER: Against an order by the High Court that I may not publish words in the
High Court apart from named proceedings, and this proceedings isn't one of those
proceedings, so I've got one High Court judge saying one thing and another saying
another.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Yes, so that would be an appeal against Judge McCahill's
order which was made, was it -- was that 23 March 2015 order?
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir, but it's not quite an appeal I'm out of ti -- I can't appeal his
order. It's an appeal against just a variation of his order which has been refused,
3
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 278 of 380
A
B
C
Ꭰ
E
F
G
H
simply to allow me to publish the words that are in the land charges. It's a bit
difficult for you, sir, to give me the right to take the matter of reinstating the land
charges to an appeal court if I'm not allowed to publish the words that the charges
actually say.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: No, and the application which you made to vary the order,
that was the application you made which was dealt with by Judge Matthews on
22 January, is that right?
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir. I have the order here as well. Yes, sir.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Yes. So, you did apply to Judge Matthews to vary the order
and he dismissed your application on 22 January, so what you would want to do is
to appeal the order of 22 January 2021 to the Court of Appeal.
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Right.
MR WEBSTER: I think I have to because I'm, I'm just concerned that I'm in violation of
the order. I don't want to violate court orders.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Is Judge McCahill's order in any of the paperwork or any of
the electronic documents you have submitted -
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN:
--
on the CE-File or anywhere else?
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir, I can tell you exactly where it is.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Right.
MR WEBSTER: It's in -- if you would please bear with me.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: You sent a large number of emails which --
MR WEBSTER: It's in tab 13, sir.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: All right. Now, let me see if I can access that. I am going to
just minimise the screen. I will go into my emails.
MR WEBSTER: Or I could share my screen with you, sir, if you would like.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Well, yes, that might be a good idea. Let me see if I can do
it my way because I am quite keen to have those documents available in case I
need them. (Pause). Right. Okay, I think I am getting there. (Pause). No, not
yet. Just bear with me. Here they are. Right, I have got that one open. It does not
seem to be in there. Email 2. (Pause). Waiting for it to open.
MR WEBSTER: (Overspeaking).
4
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 279 of 380
A
B
C
Ꭰ
E
F
G
H
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Right, that is tabs one to ten, so I need the third email.
MR WEBSTER: Oh, right.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: No, no. Don't worry. Don't worry. Patience is a virtue,
Mr Webster.
MR WEBSTER: Yes, sir. Thank you. (Laughter).
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Right. That will open in a moment. Right, I now have tabs
11 to 20. You tell me to go to 13, McCahill order.
MR WEBSTER: Page 3, sir.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: I will go to the clause you gave me which was 5(3)(c). I will
just look at the order a little more broadly and then I will find that. (Pause).
MR WEBSTER: There's a penal notice up there, sir.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Yes, indeed.
MR WEBSTER: Contempt of court, imprisonment, fines, asset seizures: pretty strong.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: (Pause). Right, so I am not going to read it out in case you
will say I should not. (Pause). Now, it does refer to some other proceedings. The
proceedings in which the cautions were the charges were vacated, just a
--
moment, that was HC09 ending in 1570, so that is not one, okay? Right, well I see
the point. So, that order was made in 2015. You have applied to vary it. You
were told you could not vary it. You now want to apply to the Court of Appeal
against the order made on 22 January 2021. I understand. Right. Was there
another application you want to make to the Court of Appeal?
MR WEBSTER: Well, the, the -- I would simply like you, sir, to order that the
application before you is, is dealt with in the same time as the application to vary
the McCahill order.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Right, okay. Well, it seems to me that -- at the moment that
you are appealing to the High Court in the matter which is before me. It is
something I should deal with. The fact that you have got potentially another
application to the Court of Appeal does not mean that I should transfer this case to
the Court of Appeal, or even wait to hear what the Court of Appeal says. I
understand the point about Judge McCahill's order. It seems to me that in this case
I am entitled to see the order of another judge and read the order, which I have
done and I can tell you that I am not in any way inhibited in reading a fellow
5
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 280 of 380
A
B
C
Ꭰ
judge's order of the court. So, we will continue with your application for an
extension of time.
Now, if, if, in the course of today's hearing, I can see that there is a real problem
about me dealing with this, well then I will react to that, but at the moment I have
to say to you I do not see any real problem, no problem of any size, in me hearing
and dealing with your application for an extension of time. So, let us proceed on
that basis, please.
MR WEBSTER: Right, sir. Well, to proceed on that basis I would need your
permission to serve the skeleton argument and counsel has said that they require
time, further time, to settle the skeleton argument. I have access to pro bono
counsel who is familiar with the case and has represented me on a couple of
occasions.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: Yes.
MR WEBSTER: And he's saying, well, look, this skeleton argument needs to be settled.
He's saying that, you know, I wholly endorse what is said, the legal advice, it boils
down to a section 13(7) paragraph in the Trust of Land and Appointment of
Trustees Act 1996.
(Proceedings continue)
E
F
G
H
6
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 281 of 380
A
B
C
D
Ꭰ
E
F
G
H
Epiq Europe Ltd hereby certify that the above is an accurate and complete record of
the proceedings or part thereof.
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
7
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 282 of 380
IN THE COUNTY COURT AT YEOVIL
Case No: FOOYE161
BEFORE:
HIS HONOUR JUDGE COTTER QC
BETWEEN:
(1) WEIR
(2) GASKELL
- and -
(1) PERSONS UNKNOWN
(2) RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
MR N EVANS appeared on behalf of the Claimants
MR R TREVIS appeared on behalf of the Second Defendant
JUDGMENT
(APPROVED)
The Law Courts
Petters Way
Yeovil
BA20 1SW
Thursday, 26 August 2021
Claimants
Defendants
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol, BS32 4NE
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/ Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance with
relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the case
concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the applicable
information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the internet, including
social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making sure that applicable
restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment.
For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask at the court office or take legal
advice.
1
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 283 of 380
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
JUDGE COTTER: This matter comes before me by virtue of an application to set
aside an order that I made on 23 August 2021. It also comes before me by virtue of a
further order I made on the same date, which stated as follows:
"Upon considering the writ of control and the second defendant's
email stating the writ had been served today and eviction was due to
be enforced, the court acting in its own motion, it is ordered:
(1) that enforcement of the possession order of January 2020 through
the writ of control dated 11 June 2021 is stayed until a hearing on
25 August 2021 at 2 pm."
In fact, it was subsequently changed to 3.30 pm. I gave liberty to apply, as the court
was acting of its own motion, and gave my brief reasons. They were as follows.
At the hearing on 21 August 2021 I was informed that the writ was a writ of
possession and not a writ of control. A writ of possession is expressly subject to
notice requirements of 14 days under CPR 83.8A. There appears to be an argument
that the relevant notice period has been circumvented. Given the urgency of the
matter, I must stay the enforcement until the matter is clarified.
The matter has now been clarified, and my understanding has been advanced by
further documentation and skeleton arguments that have been submitted by counsel,
albeit very shortly before the hearing. I am briefly going to set out the details.
On 16 January 2020 DJ Walsh made a possession order in respect of the relevant
property. On 11 June a writ of control was issued. It is unarguably, on its face, a writ
of control and solely a writ of control. It is not in the form (form 66 or form 66(a)),
used for a writ of possession or a combined writ of possession and control. The
possession order was the subject of both an appeal and a subsequent application, both
determined by HHJ Matthews, who determined that the appeal against the order of DJ
Walsh was totally without merit; likewise the subsequent application.
On 6 August a notice of eviction was served, I am told, upon the second defendant,
who was resident at the property, which is Bondit Farmhouse, Kingsdon, Somerton.
2
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 284 of 380
6.
The notice of eviction states, "The court has issued a warrant or writ of possession of
the above property at the request of the claimant." Pausing there for a second, it is
unarguably the case that no writ of possession for the property had ever been issued.
The matter came before me first on 20 August by virtue of applications made by the
second defendant to set aside enforcement, and the original possession order. I
dismissed those applications. It is and remains my view that the order of
HHJ Matthews declaring the appeal to be totally without merit and his subsequent
order in relation to the subsequent application are effective orders binding me. He is a
judge of the same level as me and I must respect his orders. I will return to the hearing
in a moment.
7.
8.
On 23 August further applications were made by the second defendant. He sought
again to set aside the order of HHJ Matthews. By two orders made on 23 August I
refused permission to stay the enforcement of the possession order and declared that
the application was totally without merit. I pointed out that the issues raised in the
appeal had been reconsidered by HHJ Matthews, and he had refused to set aside his
order. He clarified that in an order of the same date, declaring that the application was
totally without merit.
On the same day, 23 August, the agents of the claimant (acting through the court on the
authority of the writ) sought eviction. I have been shown a clip of the officer forcibly
entering the property. The difficulty faced by the claimant in taking this action is one
that the second defendant has outlined previously. He started to outline it at the
hearing before me on 20 August when he argued that there was no writ of possession;
there had only been a writ of control. I was expressly informed on behalf of the
claimant that he was wrong; that there was indeed a writ of possession. I dealt with the
issues as to my ability to stay matters on the basis that there was a writ of possession
and that I only had a jurisdiction under CPR 3, there being a separate jurisdiction in
respect of writs of control. I accepted what I was told. I did not have a copy of the
writ, nor any of the documentation relating to its provenance, which emanated from the
3
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 285 of 380
9.
Liverpool district registry for reasons unknown to me, rather than this court in Yeovil
where the hearings had previously taken place. I still have not seen the documentation.
On 23 August the Claimant emailed the court by informal application pointing out that
there has never been a formal writ of possession. At this stage I considered the form of
the writ, and it was abundantly clear to me that the second defendant was right. As a
result, I issued the order to which I have referred.
10.
11.
12.
The position in law is, in my view, relatively straightforward. I have indicated it is
unarguably the case that there has not been a writ of possession ever issued.
By CPR 83.13, "A judgment or order for the giving of possession of land may be
enforced in the High Court by ...(a) writ of possession". In relation to a writ of
possession it is stated in the practice direction, as I have indicated, that it must be in
form 66 or 66(a). The present writ is clearly a writ of control and it is stated on its face
that it is a writ of control and that the person who has issued it is authorised to issue
writs of control. There is no reference anywhere on its face to it being a writ of
execution. Quite why it was that the notice of eviction was served in the form that it
was, incorrect as it was, or the writ was obtained in the incorrect form, I know not.
In relation to the execution, as I have indicated, the second defendant had raised the
issue at the hearing before me and had also raised it with the court officials, 2nd the
bailiffs. It was to no avail, and he and his family were evicted and shuttering placed up
around the property on 23 August. My order of 23 August was, in my judgment,
clearly intended, given its face, to restore the position and to prevent the eviction
proceeding.
13. For reasons that are surprising to me, a view was taken on behalf of the claimants that
the effect of my stay was that the status quo after the execution was stayed. In other
words, although the writ which had been improperly used, it could properly allow them
to still retain possession of this residential property and exclude the second defendant
and his family from it. This interpretation was not flagged up with the court, despite a
4
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 286 of 380
14.
15.
number of emails being sent between the parties to which I was copied in, some of
which were clearly directed to me.
So as at the moment, as I understand matters, the second defendant remains excluded
from the property that it is shuttered notwithstanding my order and notwithstanding
that there has never been a valid writ of possession and there could not have been a
valid and proper eviction. Indeed there had not been a valid notice of eviction, because
that was wrong as well.
In his skeleton argument on behalf of the claimants Mr Evans raises a number of
matters. Firstly, that an application to stay or to suspend a warrant of possession
cannot be made until after it is executed. In my view (I received his skeleton at such a
late time that I have not been able to delve into the jurisprudence of the difference
between warrants of possession and writs of possession) there is a difference between
the forms of writ, otherwise there would be unified enforcement, and the skeleton
argument and indeed the extract from Woodfall refer only to warrants of possession. In
any event, the court can entertain an application where there has been oppression in
execution. In my view, there plainly has been oppression in execution in the present
case by virtue of the fact that the second defendant raised, including before me, that the
wrong writ had been issued, and I was expressly told that that he was not right, and
therefore effectively did not take his argument any further. The Second Defendant
told the other people trying to enforce that it was the wrong writ and was ignored. The
notice given to him was incorrect because there never was a writ of execution, which
he knew, and it appears to me that he was quite entitled, bearing in mind this was his
family home, to take the view that he could stay in the property until he was ever
served with a valid means of eviction. The argument otherwise would be one whereby
a person, who correctly identifies there has been no writ ever issued for execution by
possession correctly realises that the notice of eviction is wrong, has to voluntarily
leave his own property, notwithstanding there has been an incorrect procedure. That,
in my judgment, cannot be right.
5
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 287 of 380
16.
17.
18.
He was entitled to take the stance that he did, and the Claimant's conduct, in my view,
amounted to oppression.
There is another issue. It appears to me that, because there never was a warrant of
possession, or writ of possession, it did not need to be set aside. So I think that for
those reasons Mr Evans's arguments in relation to the jurisdiction of the court are
fundamentally flawed.
As for Mr Evans' argument that there has been a valid notice of eviction, that is wrong,
because it referred to a writ that did not exist. He then refers to the fact that there is
little difference between the forms of the writs. That is also not right. One clearly is a
writ of control, the other is clearly a writ of possession. They also, within their face,
set out that the person who has created the document has the power to do so. They are
very different documents, and the court would not have mandatory requirements that
the form be followed without good reason. But, importantly, a person looking on the
internet can easily recognise which is which. So the argument that it is significantly or
substantially in the same format seems to me to be misconceived.
19. There is an argument then that Liverpool District Registry saw fit to issue the writ in
the current form. As I said, I do not understand the provenance, nor do I understand
what has happened. I do not have the documentation, but that matters not. It seems to
me that the heart of the error here was at the time when the second defendant was
raising the issue before eviction, which he did before me, his point should have been
taken. It may have been possible for Liverpool to remedy the defects; I do not know; I
do not have the documentation, but there was a defect that required remedying.
20.
20
Turning to relief, Mr Evans says that the court has a power pursuant to 3.10 to rectify
matters where there has been an error of procedure. He states that the error here was
neither serious nor significant. I cannot accept that submission. The error was
significant: it was the wrong writ; it was an inappropriate and incorrect notice of
eviction, and the defendant knew that and brought it to the attention of the claimant.
To then proceed to execute using the wrong documentation is, in my view,
undoubtedly serious and significant, and the court should not condone such behaviour.
6
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 288 of 380
21.
22.
Finally, it is said that in relation to Cardiff County Council v Lee (Flowers) [2016]
EWCA Civ 1034, an authority I have not had a chance to view, that a landlord's failure
to apply to the court for permission before seeking a warrant of possession was a
procedural defect. This is not a warrant; it is a writ. It is not a question of permission;
it is a question of fact that the document produced and used for gaining possession was
the wrong one, and in the circumstances that I have outlined it would be wrong for me
to somehow waive the defect or subsequently validate it.
So, for the reasons that I have outlined, my view is that there has never been a writ of
possession; there has never been a valid notice of eviction; and any enforcement
purportedly relying upon such documentation should not be allowed. My order, which
clearly intended that the second defendant should be reinstated to the property, should
be effected. It should already have been effected. Where does that leave the claimant?
It leaves the claimant in the position of having to obtain the correct writ. This does not
in any way affect the underlying right to a writ for possession. It is not about that. It is
solely a hearing about execution. So, for the reasons that I have set out, I order that
there be no enforcement on the basis of the writ of control or notice of eviction. They
are set aside, and the second defendant should be restored to the property.
7
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 289 of 380
Epiq Europe Ltd hereby certify that the above is an accurate and complete record of the
proceedings or part thereof.
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
This transcript has been approved by the Judge
8
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 290 of 380
