over, and, sir, as I've said, the court will have to draw its own inference from what the
handing over of the keys means, but in my submission it's clear evidence of a surrender of
the lease.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: I'm just looking at Megarry & Wade on that. What it says at 1786 of
the new edition is:
"Surrender ... (Reading to the words)... party that is inconsistent with the
continuation of a lease in the circumstances such that it would be
inequitable for them to rely on the fact there has been no surrender by deed,
the matter is determined objectively, asking whether the parties have acted
towards each other in a way that is inconsistent with the continuation of the
tenancy."
So, subject to any submissions to the contrary, that seems to me to be the test I must apply.
MR CLARKE: Correct, sir. That's precisely the test. Of course, in my submission, objectively,
what other sensible inference can be drawn from the handing over of the keys, the handout
form, the prior notice on 3 July that the tenant was going to leave and the evidence of two
witnesses who saw her leave -- and, of course, the declaration by her that she's leaving the
house secure, she's handed over all of the keys? It's difficult, in my submission, to think of
a clearer case of surrender.
Sir, I suppose where that takes us is that there isn't any answer to that provided so it
goes no further than that. That's principally a finding of fact which, on the evidence as has
not been rebutted, you're perfectly entitled to reach today. In my submission, if that's the
decision the court were to find, it would be unimpeachable. It's difficult to think of a
clearer case. It goes further than that, of course. In reality, what is the point of an
adjournment to hear any more evidence on this? The second defendant has had his
opportunity. It's very difficult to understand what that further evidence would be in any
case. But a line has to be drawn at some point and, in my submission, that's been reached.
It means that one need go no further.
So, sir, that's the surrender point. Would you like to deal with the further points on
the... Because, in my submission, what you can do today is to find on the surrender point
and then if, sir, you wished to go on and consider what you would have needed to have
found on the other points, had you needed to, that may be a way to deal with it. I don't
5
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 198 of 380
know, sir, whether you want me to continue or whether you want to deal with a point at a
time.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes, I think it would be helpful to hear submissions on the alternative
argument as well, please.
MR CLARKE: Understood, sir.
Sir, I suppose, for the second defendant to succeed today, the first thing he's got to
do is to get over the surrender point. If he does get over the surrender point, the next
problem he's got is establishing what I've called the claim, which appears at page 24, which
is the claim for enfranchisement, which is a claim which was brought on behalf of Jennifer
St John Webster. So he has to go two things: get over the surrender and then persuade you
that when that claim was issued on 29 August 2018 it was done on behalf of Jennifer
St John Webster, the tenant, and of course that takes us into the realms of agency.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes. Just give me a second. (Pause). Thank you very much.
MR CLARKE: Sir, I've made reference in my second skeleton argument to my first one because
in my first one I take you to the document at page 24 to see, as a matter of construction of
it, what it purports to do. Sir, it's very clearly signed, it would seem, by the second
defendant, in brackets calling himself the tenant. It says, "I am the tenant of the house."
Well, of course, that's simply wrong. He's, in my submission, misunderstood the legal
position there but he's identified himself as the tenant of the house. At paragraph 2 he's
purporting to exercise "my rights under the 1967 Act". At paragraph 5 he says, "I have
served a copy of this notice on Mrs Jennifer St John Webster," which is of course a very
odd thing to do if all one is doing is acting as agent.
So, it seems on the face of it, objectively, simply as a matter of construction, that
this document can be read no other way than it being a document sent by the second
defendant attempting to enfranchise a lease to which he was not entitled in the first place.
He wasn't a tenant. I can take you to section 1 of the 1967 Act, sir, if you wish, but I trust
it's not controversial that the right to enfranchisement is for a tenant and a tenant only. As
I say, that can be found in section 1. This claim at page 24 to enfranchise is, if you find
that it's a claim made by the second defendant on his own behalf, a nullity, something to
which he's not entitled.
6
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 199 of 380
Sir, I suppose it must be in response to submissions made at the last hearing on
--
10 October and my previous skeleton argument that new evidence has been produced by
the second defendant. Could I take you, please, to page 111R and S. You will see that this
is an odd document in any event because if you look at the first one, R -- and the same
heading appears on the second one - it would seem to be a document produced for the
purpose of a previous claim for possession in this matter. It has the case heading on the top
of it, which is an odd thing, of course, to find on such a document in the first place.
Nonetheless, if one looks to the substance of it, there's a recital, of course, that refers to the
lease having been seen, and then it says, "It is declared Mr Rupert John Webster is
authorised to act for the tenants."
Well, there are a number of issues with that, sir. The first one is that if this is relied
upon as authority from Jennifer St John Webster to make a claim for enfranchisement it's
simply not sufficient on the proper construction to do that. Quite what does "is authorised
to act for the tenants" mean? If it was going to be for an authority to claim
enfranchisement, one would expect it to say that, not just to be a general authority. So, it's
not clear that this, even if there were not other problems, which I'll come on to, was
sufficient on a proper construction to be evidence of authority from Jennifer St John
Webster to the second defendant for what the second defendant now claims it is.
The other problem, of course, is that if one looks at the date, it's 13 September
2018, and the claim that was made and appears on its face at page 24 to be a claim made by
the second defendant, was made on 29 August 2018. One of the problems with this is that
it doesn't purport to evidence an earlier authority given at the time the claim was made. On
its face, it seems to be prospective only, not retrospective. How can it be retrospective?
What it would need to do for it to be effective in the way the second defendant would like
would be to say, perhaps, "I hereby confirm that prior to 29 August I have given the second
defendant authority to make the claim on my behalf. He did so as agent for me." It doesn't
say anything of the sort. It's a general unspecified authority prospective from
13 September 2018. In my submission, on a simple construction of the document, it's
wholly ineffective to do what the second defendant claims it does.
Now, there's also the second document found over the page at 111S, which, sir, you
will note is dated two days after the adjourned hearing in this matter when these
7
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 200 of 380
proceedings were already on foot, of course, and at a time at which the matter had been
adjourned for extra evidence. Well, it's one thing producing a late document, but this is a
document produced and signed by, it would seem we don't know -- Jennifer St John
--
Webster after the date of the adjourned hearing. In any event, what it says is, "I approve
and consent with the notice to purchase," by which, of course, we accept that means the
claim dated 29 August found at page 24.
Well, again, the difficulty with that is that this document upon its true construction
seems to be an attempt at ratification of, at best, an earlier decision or an earlier action of
the second defendant. Well, sir, it's one thing to ratify an action taken by somebody who
was authorised to act as agent at the time, but it's not possible in this way to retrospectively
grant the authority in the first place. What neither of these documents does is give any
evidence at all that there was an extant authority on 29 August 2018. Of course, sir, the
question you have to decide on the agency point is, just who was the second defendant
acting for on 29 August 2018. Was it, as the document seems to clearly indicate, himself,
or, as these two documents now produced for the purposes of this adjourned hearing
indicate, nothing more than Jennifer St John Webster seeking, at best, to ratify an earlier
decision that the second defendant wasn't authorised at the time to make.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes. You're effectively saying that a third party who is a stranger to
any rights and who acts in a way which would have no legal effect at all cannot be
constituted retrospectively an agent --
MR CLARKE: Absolutely so.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: - whose conduct has been ratified, simply because the principal who
could have given authority has indicated subsequently that she is prepared to treat it as
such?
MR CLARKE: Absolutely, sir. Ratification's different to the grant of the authority in the first
place. You can ratify a decision of an agent already authorised but you can't
retrospectively authorise. They're two entirely different things and so, of course, the
counterparty to the notice at page 24 being the claimants are entitled to consider that they
were dealing with who they were dealing with at the time, which is the second defendant.
There was no authority at the time for such an authorisation.
8
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 201 of 380
Sir, in my submission, you don't need to adjourn to hear anything further on this,
firstly because the second defendant's had all the opportunity that's reasonable to produce
all the evidence now that he can on this. He still has solicitors on the record, DWF, and he
has counsel here with him today. There was an adjournment for the purpose of him
producing the evidence and he's failed to do it. What he's produced is simply not good
enough. You can, in my submission, deal with this by construing documents today and
making a decision on them. So, sir, that's the agency point.
The other points that have been raised I'm not sure go anywhere at all, but I will
deal with them for completeness. In my submission, they just simply come down to a
straightforward misunderstanding of the statutory provisions. The first one is the
submission in respect of subsection 3(2) of the 1967 Act. As best as I can understand it,
the submission is, "Look, there may have been some previous leases granted in respect of
this property." I think it also is that it was to family members. I think what the second
defendant's trying to do is to rely upon the tenancy being a succession tenancy. That's
what subsection 3(2) does, of course; it says that if the same tenant already has a qualifying
long tenancy and then a new tenancy is granted which isn't a long tenancy, you effectively
get grandfathering rights.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: You don't lose your historic rights under the original tenancy.
MR CLARKE: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: They subsist under the later tenancy. That involves evidence that
there was an earlier tenancy involving the same tenant that contained or would confer those
statutory rights, doesn't it?
MR CLARKE: Correct.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: I don't seem to have any evidence of that.
MR CLARKE: Correct, sir. There are two problems, of course. One is that you don't have any
evidence that the previous tenancies were a qualifying long tenancy compliant with
subsection 3(1) and, on the balance, in my submission, you ought to find that that's not the
case because it's more likely than not that the same landlords are going to grant the same
terms on successive tenancies. Why would they change the same? So, there isn't any
evidence that there was a long tenancy to effectively be grandfathered. Of course, sir, the
second and fundamental point is that when one reads subsection 3(2) it says quite clearly:
9
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 202 of 380
"Where the tenant of any property under a long tenancy at a low rent, on
the coming to an end of that tenancy, becomes or has become tenant of the
property or part of it ..."
Well, you need the same tenant. That's the bottom line. As far as the evidence seems to be
today, the tenancy in 1994 was the first one that was granted to the same tenant, of course.
So, it just fundamentally doesn't apply, in my submission, sir. It's a red herring. I don't
think it takes the second defendant anywhere in any event, but it simply does defy
(Inaudible) for completeness.
There are two other sections that are referred to. I'm not quite clear how these are
said to fit together and help, but I'll take you to the next one. This is subsection 1B. This
subsection is effectively a restriction actually; it doesn't grant anything at all but simply
places a restriction under certain circumstances upon a lease so that it will only qualify to
be a long tenancy with the right of enfranchisement and won't have the other rights that go
under the same part of the Act. It's a restriction, is the first thing to say. But, in any event,
you only have to look at the first subsection (a):
"Where a tenancy granted so as to become terminable by notice after a
death, a marriage or the formation of a civil partnership -
(a) is (apart from this section) a long tenancy ..."
Well, that's where it falls down, of course, because, apart from this section, section 1B, the
tenancy isn't a qualifying long tenancy in accordance with subsection 3(1) because the
proviso applies. This subsection is a complete red herring, in my submission. It's
something that's thrown into the mix. Okay, it's apt to muddy the waters, but that's all it's
apt to do. It simply doesn't apply.
The next thing that's relied upon is section 6A, sir. This is a very straightforward
section, of course. All it's doing is allowing PRs to have the same rights that the deceased
tenant had prior to death and allowing those to be exercised within two years from grant,
but of course the important thing is, in subsection (1):
"Where a tenant of a house dies and, immediately before his death, he had
under this Part of this Act -
(a) the right to acquire the freehold ..."
10
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 203 of 380
You can't, as the PR, have a right that the deceased didn't have, and the deceased didn't
have any right to a long tenancy or to acquire the freehold because it simply isn't a long
tenancy because it doesn't comply with subsection 3(1). It becomes rather circular, of
course, sir, but the point is it simply doesn't assist the second defendant at all.
None of those subsections latterly relied upon -- section 1A, subsection 3(2),
section 6A -- assist the second defendant. They're a complete irrelevance.
So, sir, in conclusion, my primary and principal submission is that you're invited to
find and summarily deal with this matter upon the surrender point as a matter of fact; there
was a surrender and that's the end of the matter and there's nothing more to consider. If I'm
wrong about that, the agency point simply doesn't work. All the opportunity that can fairly
be given has been given for the evidence to be produced today. It simply hasn't been
given. It doesn't stack up. The two documents produced don't do, on their proper
construction, what the second defendant would like them to do. The various new
subsections trying to get around the proviso in subsection 3(1) simply don't stack up.
I don't know, sir, whether you've also seen the, finally, as I suppose I ought to deal
with, the extract from Hansard that's been produced. In my submission, that takes the
second defendant nowhere. There's nothing ambiguous about subsection 3(1) in any event.
It's not clear, even if it were, how the extract from Hansard, if you could follow Pepper v
Hart [1992] 3 WLR 1032, actually does assist you. It doesn't seem to assist at all, in my
submission. Likewise, I'm not quite clear where the case of Skins(?) v Greenwood is
supposed to take you. It simply deals with changes to subsection 3(1) to get over the
Prince of Wales Act problem, which of course is the avoidance problem; you get around it
being a long lease by saying it's terminable upon the death of someone who's not going to
die for a very long time rather than the tenant, and all the changes have done is make
subsection 3(1) depend upon the tenant's death rather than somebody else's death. I just
simply don't see how it's relevant to the case as put forward by the second defendant and
certainly, in my submission, doesn't mean that you can sidestep the operation of the
proviso at subsection 3(1).
Sir, for those reasons, in my submission, possession ought to be given today
summarily; the second defendant's a trespasser and needs to be asked to leave forthwith.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you. Yes, Mr Trevis.
11
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 204 of 380
SUBMISSIONS BY MR TREVIS
MR TREVIS: Sir, yes. Can I deal not directly with the problems that my learned friend has just
been articulating to you, but I think that an issue that has to be grappled with is the order of
DJ Collins that was made on 12 June 2018.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Okay. Is that in the bundle?
MR TREVIS: It may well be in the bundle. Unfortunately, I will be struggling a little bit with
documents. I'm very sorry, I only have Mr Webster's skeleton argument before me.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: (Pause). Sorry, date of the order?
MR TREVIS: It's 12 June 2018. What the order did was that the possession claim was
adjourned with liberty to restore before 6 June 2019. It's an identical claim.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: (Pause). So, liberty to restore by the 6th of the 6th 2019.
MR TREVIS: Yes. And it wasn't restored, so the claim by the claimants was in fact struck out,
and it seems to me that there's a significant difference between an application to strike out
a defence freestanding like that, but in the context of the order that was made what I say is
that the effect of that order is that it means that the claim disputing the enfranchisement
point has already been adjudicated upon because the identical defence that was put in was
inserting the deceased's right to succeed to the tenancy. That, in my respectful submission,
has already been adjudicated on by this court. In any event, the claimant has at least got to
furnish some sort of explanation to the court as to why the adjourned application wasn't
restored and why they took the route of issuing a completely fresh claim.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes. I've found the order, if it helps. It's at tab 11 of the bundle
client sent through to the court.
your
MR TREVIS: Great. (Pause). In any event, sir, I don't have the document before me, I have to
admit, but the point is that this matter is being relitigated in an identical fashion and in an
identical way, and, in my respectful submission, it's simply not open to my learned friend
to reopen the enfranchisement point that, in effect, has already been adjudicated upon on
12 June 2019 following the automatic strike out.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: I'm just looking at the chronology on that.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
12
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 205 of 380
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: I don't think -- maybe I'm missing it -- the notice under the 1967 Act
is actually dated, is it? But I think it's common ground that notice was served on 29
August 2018. This is the notice at page 24.
MR TREVIS: Let me just confirm that. (Pause). Sir, yes. August of 2018.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes. That's 29 August 2018. The order of Deputy Collins in
December 2018, so after that notice was served, has the recitals:
"The parties agreed the claim should be adjourned to allow the defendants
the opportunity to investigate and apply for the enfranchisement of the
property."
And the defendants were both your client and Jennifer St John Webster.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: So, the order postdates the notice that's relied upon in defence of this
claim, but the order of Deputy Collins anticipated that there would be an investigation and
application potentially for enfranchisement by either or both of Rupert or Jennifer Webster.
So, it's just slightly odd that I have a claim notice seeking enfranchisement before that
order was in fact made. I just make that observation. Your argument, though, is that,
what, the application is an abuse of process? Is that what you're saying?
MR TREVIS: Well, can I just deal with the order itself.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes, please do.
MR TREVIS: The order, I say, there's an opportunity to investigate and apply for
enfranchisement. The point there is that what that tells this court is that the issue of
enfranchisement was considered by the court, and then one can see the active section of
that order to this claim, I say is the second paragraph, which says:
"If no application is made by 4 o'clock on 6 June 2019 the claim be
dismissed without need for further order."
So one can see that the enfranchisement issue has been raised and a defence has been put in
and the claim ultimately has been struck out. It seems inevitable that the issue of this
striking out order has to be addressed. Now, it seems to me that the court also has to
consider what action did the claimants take in relation to this order. Of course, one avenue
would have been to have got back to the court and applied for an extension. Another
would have been to have appealed this order. But they did neither of those two things.
13
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 206 of 380
What they elected to do was to issue a completely fresh claim. I say it's already been
adjudicated upon. I say it's res judicata.
What I also say flows from that is that whether that argument is accepted or not, the
issue of the enfranchisement has been determined as a consequence of this order. So, the
entitlement to the enfranchisement I say has already succeeded because the claim has been
struck out. So, my learned friend's point about the 1967 Act I say can't even be articulated
before this court, never mind succeed. In my respectful submission, in any event, I think
the 1994 tenancy -- sorry, the lease dated 3 June 1995 -- was in fact a replacement lease
and it replaced the lease dated 15 May 1948. So my submission is that potentially,
providing the notice goes in within two years by a person who's acting as a personal
representative on behalf of the estate of the tenant, firstly I say that she held a long tenancy
under the definition under the 1967 Act, but, providing the notice has gone in within the
two-year period of time, however that notice has gone in (because there isn't actually a
definition in terms of the wording that one has to use), all that needs to be communicated
to the landlord is the desire to utilise the issues set out under the 1967 Act.
My submission is that, Mr Webster having served a notice to that effect, it doesn't
matter whether it appears that he's saying, "I'm a tenant and I'm entitled to enfranchise
that." Mr Webster's case, in point of fact, is that he is acting as one of the executors of his
grandmother's estate and in that capacity is entitled to serve the notice. His contention is
that notice has been served, so
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Just pause for a moment, please, sorry.
MR TREVIS: Sorry, forgive me.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: (Pause). Okay. Let me just unpack that a little bit.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: With regards to the 1948 lease --
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: - is that still in existence?
MR TREVIS: Well, that lease has been substituted.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: What I mean by that, it's not in existence in terms of its legal effect;
what I mean is, is a copy of the 1948 lease available to me today if I ask for one?
14
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 207 of 380
MR TREVIS: Well, Mr Webster's tried to get hold of a copy of the lease but there doesn't
appear to be one in existence.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Doesn't exist.
MR TREVIS: So he wouldn't have been able to have provided that evidence in advance of this
hearing.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: All right. Thank you. Hang on. 1948 lease -- copy currently does
not exist. Mr Clarke, I assume your clients don't have a copy.
MR CLARKE: I don't think so, sir, no.
--
- and I don't think we have any idea what the terms
were. I've made my submission on what I think is likely, but we don't know.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes. All right. That's that. And then you say Mr Webster is acting
for whom, sorry?
MR TREVIS: Well, he's able to act as one of the executors of --
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: For whom?
MR TREVIS: For Mrs Marrow, the deceased, who was the tenant.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Just help me with that, because I need to get my head around the facts
on that score. Let me just get the lease in front of me, the 1995 lease I mean. Where will I
find that?
MR TREVIS: Page 70. I'll just find the right ...
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you.
MR TREVIS: (Pause). 71.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes. (Pause). So, the defence says that Mrs Marrow died -- she took
the 1995 lease by survivorship. It says that Edward died in August 1995.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: The lease vested in Patricia Marrow. It then says that Patricia died on
25 December 2017.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: She appointed Jennifer Webster, Miranda Maybee and Priscilla
Keyser as her executors.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: So, why and how -- maybe it's a shortcoming of my own reading into
the case -- does Mr Rupert Webster become PR for Mrs Marrow?
15
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 208 of 380
MR TREVIS: Well, his mother was acting as one of the executors and she assigned that function
to her son.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Right. Where's the evidence of the assignment?
MR TREVIS: (Pause). Sorry. Forgive me, sir. (Pause). Forgive me, sir. The second
defendant is saying that the declaration is tab 10 of his skeleton argument and is dated
13 September 2018, and also tab 18, which is 12 October 2019.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: So, you'll forgive me, Mr Trevis, but it's not right, then, that
Mr Rupert Webster was ever executor for Mrs Marrow, and at the date of service of the
notice to enfranchise he was not acting under any delegation -- and in fact I'm not sure a
PR can delegate their function in the way that's been suggested here -- because these
postdate the notice of enfranchisement, don't they? He wasn't executor and I have nothing
to show that he was acting as agent for the executor prior to the service of the notice.
MR TREVIS: In my submission, the date of the assignment of the function of an executor is
irrelevant. As long as the executor of the estate of the deceased serves the notice, that is
sufficient.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: I understand that.
MR TREVIS: Oh.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Forgive me. My recollection -- and I'll be corrected is that
executors can't simply delegate their function. In any event, I have no evidence that
Mrs Webster had, according to Mr Webster, to act as agent for her in her capacity as PR
for Mrs Marrow. I don't have any evidence of that.
MR TREVIS: That is true. But, equally, it is possible for Mr Webster to act as the agent of his
mother and serve the notice. So, whether she renounces as an executor and
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: But she hasn't renounced, has she?
MR TREVIS: No, she hasn't, so she appears to remain as ...
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: (Pause). I'm not being nit-picky. I'm just trying to be clear that I
understand the factual position.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: I was being told that Mr Webster was an executor for Mrs Marrow
and that's not right. That's all I wanted to be clear about, and I wanted to be clear as to
whether or not there was any evidence that he was acting as agent for Mrs Webster as PR
16
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 209 of 380
and Mrs Marrow at the time of the service of the notice to enfranchise, and there's no
evidence of that either. If there is, please take me to it, because I wouldn't want to decide
this application on an erroneous factual basis.
MR TREVIS: Yes. Sir, we're just --
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes, of course.
MR TREVIS: (Pause). Sir, as I understand the point that Mr Webster is making, it is set out
under the Landlord and Tenant 2002, the Leasehold Reform (Notices) (Amendment)
Regulations 2002 and it's point 6. The Regulations require the serving of a copy of the
notice on the following persons, which is why his mother was served with a copy of this
notice, "Who I know or believe to have an interest in the house and premises superior to
my tenancy." I think what Mr Webster is saying is that potentially he is a tenant. In the
alternative, he's able to act as his mother's agent, who appears to still be executor of the
estate.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes.
MR TREVIS: Mr Webster also asserts the fact that he says that his mother has assigned to him
the function of executorship.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Okay.
MR TREVIS: Potentially -- and this hasn't been articulated in the skeleton argument -- it seems
to me there is a potential right to succession point under schedule 1 of the Rent Act 1977
because he's a family member and he was living in Bondip Farm for in excess of two years,
and living with his grandmother. That is something that, to determine whether or not that
is the case, in my respectful submission, would require the adjunction of evidence via
witness evidence.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Just on that point, Mr Trevis, I just want to be clear, I don't recall
seeing in the defence the assertion of rights of succession under the 1977 Act.
MR TREVIS: It's not there.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: No, okay.
MR TREVIS: It isn't there.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you.
MR TREVIS: Forgive me, sir.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes.
17
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 210 of 380
MR TREVIS: (Pause). Sir, I think I ought to address the point that's addressed under section
1B of the 1967 Act.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: I don't want to dictate to you how you present your case, but
obviously I'm going to have to decide whether or not there is any factual issue on the
surrender that requires a trial and whether I can determine that on the evidence that's before
me today, so there's the surrender point. You've addressed me on the agency point, I think,
already, but obviously you can address me on that more fully if you need to. On the
subsections point I'll hear you as well, but this surrender point -- it is being said against you
that if I'm not with you on the res judicata abuse of process point, that that's the knockout
point.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: So I welcome submissions on that point as well.
MR TREVIS: Well, presumably that issue will have been determined as a consequence of the
order of DJ Collins as well, so it's a secondary issue in relation to the enfranchisement
point.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes.
MR TREVIS: Factually speaking, sir, I accept wholly what you say is set out in Megarry &
Wade. It's an objective test. We have purely a situation here where it's abundantly clear
that, notwithstanding the fact that Jennifer St John Webster handed over the keys, she must
have known that her son had the keys. In fact, the landlords clearly knew that
Rupert Webster was still in the property and that he must have had the keys. How on earth
is he getting in and out of the property without any keys? But also what I say is -- I'd have
to concede that it's circumstantial evidence, but had the landlord known that all of the keys
had been handed over, they would have taken possession, and they haven't.
In my respectful submission, this, to a certain extent, comes back to the order of
6 June 2018, that the claimants recognise that the landlord and tenant issues here are really
rather involved, and it's partly because of the family dynamic here, but in relation to the
handing over of the keys, the issue of the keys itself is obviously one of the factors to be
taken into account. But the agents acting for the landlords must have had a pretty good
idea that Rupert Webster was there and he must have had a set of keys, so although
technically there's a form, it's a bit like a sort of mobile phone agreement, isn't it? You
18
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 211 of 380
might have signed the agreement, but do you know every term of that agreement? Do you
know what you're signing up to? What I suggest is going on here -- but one would have to
have evidence about that in terms of Mrs Jennifer St John Webster leaving the premises --
is she appears to have had enough and she is just handing over the keys, so at the time that
she's signing whatever form is being put in front of her, she really doesn't care. And why
should she care? She's, in effect, saying, "I've no further interest." However, her son
and it's abundantly clear to those instructing my learned friend and it's abundantly clear to
Greenslade Taylor Hunt -- is still there and he has a set of keys. Does that amount to
surrender? In my respectful submission, it plainly does not because the landlords know
that there is somebody in possession of that property with a set of keys.
--
I hope my learned friend will forgive me for saying this, but the point in relation to
the form -- and it's a perfectly proper point to take, but what I would say about the point of
Jennifer St John Webster signing a form that says, "Yes, I've handed over all of the keys,"
is she must have known that that wasn't true and the estate agents must have known that
that wasn't true at the time they collected the form. The landlords must have known that
that wasn't true. It's a form. The purpose of the form is to try and firm up the position of
the landlords, understandably so. It doesn't mean that that is what is going on objectively.
In my respectful submission, there's an issue to be tried in relation to the surrender of the
lease that would require some evidence. You've heard what my learned friend has to say
from the various people who attended -- we had Natalie Rendle and Claire Crumb and I
think there was one other person; there was a David Lees, I think, that was mentioned
but at the end of the day their function is just to go over there, maybe get the keys, get the
form signed, and, to that extent, providing they can demonstrate they've done their job,
you'll probably find that the estate agent doesn't particularly care. But it seems to me, in
my respectful submission, it would be of some importance for this issue to be adjudicated
upon properly with the adjunction of evidence and these individuals providing witness
statements as to exactly what happened when the form was signed.
--
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: What I might be right in thinking, I suspect, is, if I take your factual
case at its height, which is that your client retained keys, I'll be invited to conclude that if
the tenant returns all of the keys that they hold to the landlord, the fact that a third party in
occupation retains their keys doesn't change the objective construction of that Act. I think
19
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 212 of 380
