IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
BUSINESS LIST (CHD)
BUSINESS AND PROPERTY COURTS IN BRISTOL
His Honour Judge Paul Matthews
23 December 2021
BETWEEN
1. Rupert St John Webster
HIGH
COURT
OF
JUSTICE
CASE NO: BL-2021-BRS-00000 Dec 2021
THE BUSINESS AND
*
OURTS IN BRISTOL
PROPERTY
BL-2021-BRS-000008
-and-
1. Winterbotham Smith Penley LLP, 2. John Penley
ORDER
Claimant
Defendant
UPON the application of the defendants by notice dated 2 August 2021
AND UPON reading the evidence filed
AND UPON hearing Oliver Wooding of counsel for the defendants and the claimant
in person, remotely by MS Teams
AND UPON judgment being handed down on 15 December 2021
AND UPON written submissions being filed and served in relation to consequential
matters
IT IS ORDERED that:
1. Paragraphs 1-6, 23, 25-27 and 30-35 of the particulars of claim be struck out
as disclosing no reasonable cause of action.
2. Paragraphs 20-22, 24 and 29 of the particulars of claim be struck out as an
abuse of the process of the court.
3. Summary judgment be given in favour of the defendants in relation to the
claims made in paragraphs 7-19 and 28 of the particulars of claim.
4. Accordingly, there be judgment for the defendants on the claim.
5. The claimant shall by 4 PM on 7 January 2022 pay the defendants' costs,
summarily assessed on the indemnity basis in the sum of £27,500.
Page 238 of 311
6. It be recorded that the claim was totally without merit.
7. Permission to appeal be refused.
REASONS:
1. On 15 December 2021, I handed down judgment, acceding to an application
by the defendants to strike out the claim, or give reverse summary judgment,
on various bases: see [2021] EWHC 3386 (Ch). I invited and received written
submissions on consequential matters, and I have considered these. The
following are my reasons for the order that I will make.
2. The defendants seek an order that the claimant pay their costs on the
indemnity basis, to be assessed summarily. They also ask the court to record
that the claim was totally without merit. The claimant submits that, since the
claim was brought for the benefit of all of the beneficiaries of his
grandfather's estate, it is that estate which should bear the costs and not him
alone. He also resists the suggestion that the claim was totally without merit,
and relies upon a suggestion in an earlier judgment by HHJ McCahill QC that
he might have a claim as a disappointed beneficiary. He says alternatively that
each side ought to bear its own costs.
3. Most of the claimant's written submissions are directed to repeating the
asserted merits of his claim, rather than to the question of what consequential
orders should be made, given the (adverse) decision that has been made. In
any event, I can see no answer to the claim for an order that the claimant pay
the defendants' costs. I consider that a costs order should be made, and that the
defendants are the successful party. I also consider that there is no reason here
to depart from the general rule that costs follow the event.
4. In particular, I cannot accept that the liability for costs should be shared with
any other of the beneficiaries of his grandfather's estate. This was not a
representative action, and the claimant did not obtain any kind of
representation order in relation to other beneficiaries of that estate. Nor did he
have their consent to bring this claim on their behalf, and thereby render them
potentially liable for the costs if he lost (as he has). He alone chose to do this. I
am afraid that this liability must fall on his own head.
5. In relation to whether costs should be ordered on the indemnity basis, it is well
known that the test is whether the circumstances of the case "take the case out
of the norm”. In that respect, the defendants say that the matters they rely on
"include:
a. The fact that the claim has failed in its entirety at the first opportunity;
b. The general background to the case, being as it is part of an ongoing
crusade by C despite having lost at every turn;
Page 239 of 311
c. The additional costs and time incurred by the Court and by Ds by the
very late attempt to adjourn, which in any event failed;
d. The fact that large parts of the claim were struck out for being an abuse
of process arising from the collateral attacks on earlier court
judgments;
e. The repeated allegations of fraud made against a professional man, and
a professional firm of solicitors, which have no legal or evidential basis
whatsoever (e.g. paragraphs 8.4, 16.2, 29, 31 of the Particulars of
Claim) and similarly as to illegality (paragraphs 29, 30).
f. C's conduct in communicating with the court by email without any
obvious limitation or thought for the resources that it absorbs, and
often failing to copy in Ds;
g. C's conduct in the period between the end of the hearing, and then
following the provision of the judgment in draft, as set out in
paragraphs 76 to 83 of the judgment.”
6. The claimant does not really address these submissions. Although I think there
is some force in each of these points, the ones that weigh the most heavily
with me are (b), (e), (f) and (g). The claimant's obsession with this litigation is
not normal. He is unable to process his continued failure in every attempt he
takes to dress his complaint in different clothes as in any way the result of a
lack of merit, whether procedural or substantive. His behaviour in this latest
round has, I regret to say, been very far out of the norm.
7. I bear in mind that the claimant is not a naïve or ignorant individual. Instead,
he is a very experienced, and capable, litigant in person (as I said in paragraph
47 of the adjournment judgment [2021] EWHC 3198 (Ch)). In these
circumstances, I have no hesitation in saying that it is an appropriate case for
costs to be awarded on the indemnity basis.
8. The next point is whether the court should record that the claim was totally
without merit. The defendants say, correctly, that “Totally without merit
means bound to fail". They refer to paragraphs 73 and 74 of the judgment.
The claimant says:
"The extended civil restraint order by HHJ McCahill QC makes it clear
that he identified a with merit potential claim."
Page 240 of 311
9. This was actually stated to be an exception to the ECRO, and not a statement
that such a claim would be one with merit. But even were it so, it would not
mean that such a claim could be brought after the expiry of the relevant
limitation period. Even if he had intended to, HHJ McCahill QC could not
override that. And that is indeed (at least a part of) the claimant's problem.
The claimant criticises the defendants for not appealing the order of HHJ
McCahill QC. But in my judgment there was nothing to appeal.
10. I struck out parts of this claim on the basis that they did not plead a complete
cause of action against the defendants, and other parts on the basis that they
amounted to a collateral attack on earlier decisions, which was an abuse of the
process of the court. Those parts of the claim were indeed doomed to fail from
the beginning.
11. I then gave reverse summary judgment in respect of other parts of the claim,
on the basis that, regardless of the actual merits of the claim, the defendants
had an unimpeachable defence of limitation. Those parts too were indeed
doomed to fail from the beginning. In my judgment it is appropriate to record
the whole of this claim as having been “totally without merit”.
12. This application took less than a day to hear. In my judgment it is appropriate
that that I assess the costs summarily This will save the costs of a further
process and hearing for detailed assessment of those costs. A costs schedule
dated 1 December 2021 was filed and served, in the total sum of £29,699 (no
VAT being added, as this can be recovered by the defendants).
13. The defendants make a number of "points regarding assessment:
a. The hourly rates charged for grade A, B, and D fee earners are very
considerably below the updated guideline rates;
b. The vast majority of the fee earning work has been delegated
appropriately to the grade B and D fee earners;
c. There has been a certain economy achieved by retaining counsel who
has been involved in the litigation since 2014;
d. Since this was insurer backed litigation there were additional, but
necessary, communications with the insurer, and two separate clients
(given that D1 has now retired from D2);
Page 241 of 311
e. The nature of C's conduct of his litigation required higher than usual
levels of correspondence with him and the Court. By way of two
further examples:
i. C continued to attempt to seek to get Ds to agree case
management directions despite being served with the
application to strike out [A500-525];
ii. C's misguided attempt to seek joinder of other parties under
CPR r. 19.3 (culminating in the exchange at [A535-536]".
14. The defendants also make the point that the value of the claim was estimated
by the claimant at in excess of £5 million. But this goes mainly to
proportionality, and, on an assessment of costs on the indemnity basis, that is
not a relevant consideration.
15. The claimant makes a number of points on the amount of costs sought. His
primary point is that, if the claim was indeed totally without merit, (as indeed I
have held) it ought to have been capable of being dealt with at much lower
cost, because far less effort would be needed, and from less expensive
lawyers. He also submits that the total claimants' costs for the hearing should
have been in the region of £6000-£8000.
16. On this last point, it is not clear to me where the claimant gets those figures
from, as he gives no breakdown or other particulars. But I am satisfied in any
event that as a range it is far too low for an application of this kind, which
requires attention to the detail of every single paragraph of the particulars of
claim, stretching back over the events of some 30 years, in connection with the
estates of at least three different persons, and in relation to which a number of
different legal proceedings have already been brought. It is not realistic to
think of this being undertaken by a junior lawyer in only a few hours.
17. Although I have held that the claim was totally without merit, that does not
mean that it could have been dismissed off-hand. It is only by looking at the
individual strands of the claim, and following through in relation to the history
and the relevant law, that it becomes apparent that all the different elements of
the claim were bound to fail, although for different reasons. It is a detailed
process, which takes time.
18. I acknowledge that the charge out rates for the solicitors are not unreasonable,
and that there was appropriate delegation from the top-down. I also recognise
that the obsessive approach of the claimant towards the litigation has meant
that the work required to deal with it has increased rather than decreased.
Nevertheless, ultimately, I consider that the number of hours spent by the
Page 242 of 311
solicitors on the documents was overall on the high side. I will therefore
reduce the overall sum to be paid by the claimant to the defendants from
£29,699 to £27,500.
19. The claimant asks for an order that this be paid in three months. However he
has no explanation or other reason why he needs so much time. The normal
rule is for payment in 14 days. Whether the defendants seek to enforce the
order immediately is of course a matter for them. But I can see no reason for
not making the usual order.
20. It appears that the claimant is asking for permission to appeal to the Supreme
Court. I cannot see any justification for a “leapfrog” appeal. To the extent that
the claimant seeks permission to appeal to the Court of Appeal, I refuse it.
There is no real prospect of success on any such appeal, and I can see no other
compelling reason for it.
21. I am very grateful to the parties for their helpful submissions.
SERVICE OF THE ORDER
The court has sent sealed copies of this order to:
[[Claimant Legal Representative Address]]
[[Claimant Legal Representative Reference]]
Womble Bond Dickinson (UK) LLP, 3 Temple Quay, Temple Bank East, Bristol BS1
6DZ, DX 200561 Bristol Temple Meads, WSP LLP+, 26 Long Street, Dursley,
Gloucestershire GL5 3BJ, WSP LLP, 26 Long Street, Dursley, Gloucestershire,
Gloucestershire GL5 3BJ
JAR.SAB.347421.00799, sally.brock@wbd-uk.com
Page 243 of 311
PTA Template 269C1 - OCT 16 - First Appeal
COURT OF APPEAL
First Appeal
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL, CIVIL DIVISION
REF: A3.2021/1553
WEBSTER -V-
PLENLEY
MAJESTY
COURT
HER
OF APPEAL
(GS 18.12.19)
18 Jan 2022,
CA-2021-001889
ORDER made by the Rt. Hon. Lord Justice Arnold
On consideration of the appellant's notice and accompanying documents, but without an oral hearing, in respect of
an application for permission to appeal
Decision: refused as being totally without merit.
Reasons
The order under appeal was made on 10 February 2021, but the appellant's notice was not properly filed until
16 August 2021, some five months out of time. The Appellant seeks an extension of time, relying upon the fact
that he filed an imperfect appellant's notice in time on 2 March 2021 and arguing that he remedied the
deficiency on 15 June 2021. This is a weak case for an extension of time of the magnitude requested, but I will
proceed on the assumption that an extension of time would be granted if the appeal had merit.
The Appellant's grounds of appeal commence with a statement that the grounds of appeal "involve 4 points of
general public importance, on which basis he asks for permission to apply to the UK Supreme Court”. This is
misconceived. No question of an appeal to the Supreme Court can arise unless the Appellant obtains
permission to appeal to this Court and the substantive appeal is dismissed. I shall therefore disregard the
reference to the Supreme Court.
Ground 1 is that the Appellant's family "is suffering from forms of discrimination on the basis of disability
contrary to the purpose of the United Nations 2006 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its
Optional Protocol”. This contention is totally meritless. Leaving aside the fact that the Appellant makes no
attempt to explain how he can rely upon his supposed rights under the Convention before the domestic courts,
the suggestion that the ECRO involves discrimination against him or his family is wholly without foundation. It is
based upon the fact that the Appellant persistently issues claims and makes applications which are totally
without merit, and has not been deterred from doing so by two previous ECROs.
Ground 2 is that “since the trial, judgment and order from [sic – I assume this should read ‘in'] HC09C01570
any precedent set there was broken, and C, his household, are victims of offences under national law". Again
this contention is totally meritless. Morgan J when granting the ECRO under appeal did not simply rely upon the
first ECRO granted by HHJ McCahill on 23 March 2015 or the second granted by HHJ Mathews on 21 April
2017, neither of which the Appellant successfully appealed. Rather he relied upon three further TWM
applications made by the Appellant since the expiry of the second order on 22 March 2019 as conferring
jurisdiction and righty took into account the previous history when exercising his discretion.
Ground 3 challenges the categorisation of certain applications as TWM, but this goes nowhere since (a) it is too
late for the Appellant to challenge the TWM markings underpinning the first two ECROS and (b) in any event, it
does not relate to the three relied upon by Morgan J.
Ground 4 is that the High Court "has not followed Section 13.8 of the Trusts of Land and Appointment of
Trustees Act 1996”. This contention is totally meritless because it has nothing to do with the basis upon which
Morgan J made the ECRO.
Ground 5 is that "the 23 March 2015 decision that the property 'is available' and the 24 January 2021 decision
that it is not breaks any precedent that was set”. This is totally meritless for the same reasons as Ground 2.
Ground 6 is that "the 23 March 2015 and 29 January 2021 decisions not to “publish words' and the 10 February
2021 judicial decisions to ‘publish words' breaks any earlier precedent, such that neither action was totally
without merit'. This is totally meritless for the same reasons as Ground 2.
Ground 7 merely repeats the opening statement addressed above.
Page 244 of 311
CIVIL
DIVISION
Information for or directions to the parties
Mediation: Where permission has been granted or the application adjourned:
Does the case fall within the Court of Appeal Mediation Scheme (CAMS)
automatic pilot categories (see below)?
Pilot categories:
• All cases involving a litigant in person (other than immigration and family
appeals)
Personal injury and clinical negligence cases;
• All other professional negligence cases;
• Small contract cases below £500,000 in judgment (or claim) value, but not
where principal issue is non-contractual;
If yes, is there any reason not to refer to CAMS mediation under the pilot?
Yes/No (delete as appropriate)
•
Boundary disputes;
•
•
EAT Appeals
•
Inheritance disputes.
Residential landlord and
tenant appeals
Yes/No (delete as appropriate)
If yes, please give reason:
Non-pilot cases: Do you wish to make a recommendation for mediation?
Where permission has been granted, or the application adjourned
a) time estimate (excluding judgment)
b) any expedition
17 January 2021
Notes
(1) Rule 52.6(1) provides that permission to appeal may be given only where -
Signed:
Yes/No (delete as appropriate)
Date: Richard Arnold
a)
b)
the Court considers that the appeal would have a real prospect of success; or
there is some other compelling reason why the appeal should be heard.
(2) Where permission to appeal has been refused on the papers, that decision is final and cannot be further reviewed or appealed. See rule 52.5
and section 54(4) of the Access to Justice Act 1999.
(3) Where permission to appeal has been granted you must serve the proposed bundle index on every respondent within 14 days of the date of the
Listing Window Notification letter and seek to agree the bundle within 49 days of the date of the Listing Window Notification letter (see
paragraph 21 of CPR PD 52C).
Case Number: Error! Reference source not found.
PTA Template 269C2 - OCT 16 - First Appeal
(GS: 18.12.19)
REF: Error! Reference source not found.
Page 245 of 311
PTA Template 269C1 - OCT16 - First Appeal
ET MON
COURT OF APPEAL
First Appeal
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL, CIVIL DIVISION
REF: A3/2021/1553
WEBSTER -V-
PLENLEY
HER MAJESTY'S COURT
VISION
[SEAL]
ORDER made by the Rt. Hon. Lord Justice Arnold
On consideration of the appellant's notice and accompanying documents, but without an oral hearing, in respect of an
application for permission to appeal
ORDER AMENDED UNDER THE SLIP RULE UNDERLINED IN RED THIS 24 JANUARY 2022
Decision: refused as being totally without merit.
Reasons
The order under appeal was made on 10 February 2021, but the appellant's notice was not properly filed until 16
August 2021, some five months out of time. The Appellant seeks an extension of time, relying upon the fact that he
filed an imperfect appellant's notice in time on 2 March 2021 and arguing that he remedied the deficiency on 15
June 2021. This is a weak case for an extension of time of the magnitude requested, but I will proceed on the
assumption that an extension of time would be granted if the appeal had merit.
The Appellant's grounds of appeal commence with a statement that the grounds of appeal "involve 4 points of
general public importance, on which basis he asks for permission to apply to the UK Supreme Court”. This is
misconceived. No question of an appeal to the Supreme Court can arise unless the Appellant obtains permission to
appeal to this Court and the substantive appeal is dismissed. I shall therefore disregard the reference to the
Supreme Court.
Ground 1 is that the Appellant's family "is suffering from forms of discrimination on the basis of disability contrary to
the purpose of the United Nations 2006 Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities and its Optional
Protocol". This contention is totally meritless. Leaving aside the fact that the Appellant makes no attempt to explain
how he can rely upon his supposed rights under the Convention before the domestic courts, the suggestion that the
ECRO involves discrimination against him or his family is wholly without foundation. It is based upon the fact that the
Appellant persistently issues claims and makes applications which are totally without merit, and has not been
deterred from doing so by two previous ECROS.
Ground 2 is that “since the trial, judgment and order from [sic - I assume this should read 'in'] HC09C01570 any
precedent set there was broken, and C, his household, are victims of offences under national law". Again this
contention is totally meritless. Morgan J when granting the ECRO under appeal did not simply rely upon the first
ECRO granted by HHJ McCahill on 23 March 2015 or the second granted by HHJ Mathews on 21 April 2017,
neither of which the Appellant successfully appealed. Rather he relied upon three further TWM applications made
by the Appellant since the expiry of the second order on 22 March 2019 as conferring jurisdiction and righty took into
account the previous history when exercising his discretion.
Ground 3 challenges the categorisation of certain applications as TWM, but this goes nowhere since (a) it is too late
for the Appellant to challenge the TWM markings underpinning the first two ECROs and (b) in any event, it does not
relate to the three relied upon by Morgan J.
Ground 4 is that the High Court "has not followed Section 13.8 of the Trusts of Land and Appointment of Trustees
Act 1996”. This contention is totally meritless because it has nothing to do with the basis upon which Morgan J
made the ECRO.
Ground 5 is that "the 23 March 2015 decision that the property 'is available' and the 24 January 2021 decision that it
is not breaks any precedent that was set”. This is totally meritless for the same reasons as Ground 2.
Ground 6 is that “the 23 March 2015 and 29 January 2021 decisions not to "publish words' and the 10 February
2021 judicial decisions to 'publish words' breaks any earlier precedent, such that neither action was totally without
merit'. This is totally meritless for the same reasons as Ground 2.
Ground 7 merely repeats the opening statement addressed above.
Page 246 of 311
Information for or directions to the parties
Mediation: Where permission has been granted or the application adjourned:
Does the case fall within the Court of Appeal Mediation Scheme (CAMS) automatic
pilot categories (see below)?
Pilot categories:
• All cases involving a litigant in person (other than immigration and family
appeals)
• Personal injury and clinical negligence cases;
• All other professional negligence cases;
• Small contract cases below £500,000 in judgment (or claim) value, but not
where principal issue is non-contractual;
If yes, is there any reason not to refer to CAMS mediation under the pilot?
If yes, please give reason:
Non-pilot cases: Do you wish to make a recommendation for mediation?
Where permission has been granted, or the application adjourned
a) time estimate (excluding judgment)
b) any expedition
Yes/No (delete as appropriate)
• Boundary disputes;
Inheritance disputes.
•
•
•
EAT Appeals
Residential landlord and
tenant appeals
Yes/No (delete as appropriate)
Yes/No (delete as appropriate)
17 January 2021
Notes
(1) Rule 52.6(1) provides that permission to appeal may be given only where -
Signed:
Date: Richard Arnold
a)
b)
the Court considers that the appeal would have a real prospect of success; or
there is some other compelling reason why the appeal should be heard.
(2) Where permission to appeal has been refused on the papers, that decision is final and cannot be further reviewed or appealed. See rule 52.5
and section 54(4) of the Access to Justice Act 1999.
(3) Where permission to appeal has been granted you must serve the proposed bundle index on every respondent within 14 days of the date of
the Listing Window Notification letter and seek to agree the bundle within 49 days of the date of the Listing Window Notification letter (see
paragraph 21 of CPR PD 52C).
Case Number: Error! Reference source not found.
PTA Template 269C2 - OCT16 - First Appeal
(GS:18.12.19)
REF: Error! Reference source not found.
Page 247 of 311
General Form of Judgment or Order
In the County Court at
Bristol
Claim Number
Date
FO0YE161
24 March 2022
THE COU
COUNTY
COURT
MR BRUCE KERSTIN WEIR TRUSTEE OF J S NEAL DECEASED TRUST
1st Claimant
Ref S BOWLEY DL/
EP/90578/042
MS LESLEY JOAN GASKELL TRUSTEE OF J S NEAL DECEASED TRUST 2nd Claimant
PERSONS UNKNOWN
Ref
1st Defendant
Ref
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
2nd Defendant
Ref
Before District Judge Walsh sitting at the County Court at Yeovil, The Law Courts, Petters Way, Yeovil, Somerset,
BA20 1SW.
UPON the court noting the Claimant's request for a hearing by email following delay in the issue of a writ of
possession
AND UPON the delay resulting from the District Judge's request for an update as to the position following HHJ
Matthews' order dated 8 November 2021
IT IS ORDERED THAT
1. The case shall be listed for a 30 minute attended hearing at 9.30 a.m. on 12 April 2022 to consider whether the
request for a High Court writ of possession should be granted.
2. The Claimant shall file a case summary (limited to 2 sides of A4) and a paginated bundle limited to the court
orders and/or judgments relevant to the request for a warrant not less than 3 days before the hearing.
Dated 24 March 2022
The court office at the County Court at Bristol, Bristol Civil Justice Centre, 2 Redcliff Street, Bristol, BS1 6GR. When corresponding with the court, please address forms
or letters to the Court Manager and quote the claim number. Tel: 0117 3664800 Fax: 0870 3240048. Check if you can issue your claim online. It will save you time
and money. Go to www.moneyclaim.gov.uk to find out more.
N24 General Form of Judgment or Order
ProPage 248 of 311
CJR065C
General Form of Judgment or Order
In the County Court at
Bristol
Claim Number
Date
F00YE161
25 April 2022
THE
COUNTY
COURT
MR BRUCE KERSTIN WEIR TRUSTEE OF J S NEAL DECEASED TRUST
1st Claimant
Ref S BOWLEY DL/
EP/90578/042
MS LESLEY JOAN GASKELL TRUSTEE OF J S NEAL DECEASED TRUST 2nd Claimant
PERSONS UNKNOWN
Ref
1st Defendant
Ref
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
2nd Defendant
Ref
Before District Judge Walsh sitting remotely at the County Court at Yeovil, The Law Courts, Petters Way,
Yeovil, Somerset, BA20 1SW on 12 April 2022.
UPON hearing counsel for the Claimants and counsel for the Defendants
AND UPON the parties agreeing that the matter has not been transferred to the High Court for enforcement to
date and there being no such application before the court or any application before the court under CPR 83.13(3)
AND UPON the Second Defendant withdrawing his application dated 7 April 2022 it no longer being necessary
or appropriate to further consider that application
IT IS ORDERED THAT:
1. The request for a writ of possession made under cover of the letter 21 January 2022 is refused.
Dated 12 April 2022
The court office at the County Court at Bristol, Bristol Civil Justice Centre, 2 Redcliff Street, Bristol, BS1 6GR. When corresponding with the court, please address forms
or letters to the Court Manager and quote the claim number. Tel: 0117 3664800 Fax: 0870 3240048. Check if you can issue your claim online. It will save you time
and money. Go to www.moneyclaim.gov.uk to find out more.
N24 General Form of Judgment or Order
ProduPage 249noẞ31
CJR065C
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
BUSINESS AND PROPERTY COURTS IN BRISTOL
CHANCERY APPEALS (CHD)
FOOYN161
HIGH
COURT
Appeal ref: CH-2022-BRS-000004
THE BUSINESS
OF
JUSTICE
05 May 2022
SINESS AND PROPERTY COURTS IN BRISTOL
ON APPEAL FROM THE ORDER OF HIS HONOUR JUDGE COTTER DATED 21 AUGUST2021
COUNTY COURT AT BRISTOL
BETWEEN:
CH-2022-BRS-000004
(1) MR BRUCE KERSTEIN WEIR AS TRUSTEE OF THE J.S. NEAL (DECEASED) TRUST
(2) MR LESLEY JOHN GASKELL AS RUSTEE OF THE J.S. NEAL (DECEASED) TRUST
and
(1) PERSONS UNKNOWN
(2) MR RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
ORDER
Respondents
Appellant
Before The Honourable Mr Justice Zacaroli sitting at the Bristol Civil Justice Centre, 2 Redcliff
St, Redcliffe, Bristol BS1 6GR on 11 April 2022
UPON reading the Appellant's notice dated 10 September 2021
AND UPON reading the orders of HHJ Matthews dated 12 January 2021; 23 June 2021; 21
August 2021 and 8 November 2021
AND UPON reading the orders of HHJ Cotter dated 19 August 2021; 21 August 2021 (including
the second version of the same); 23 August 2021 (both orders of that date) and 26 August
2021
Page 250 of 311
IT IS ORDERED THAT:
1. The application for permission to appeal is refused.
2. This appeal is wholly without merit and the Appellant may not request the decision to be
reconsidered at an oral hearing.
REASONS
1. The appellant seeks permission to appeal against the order of HHJ Cotter dated 21 August
2021.
2. By that order HHJ Cotter dismissed the appellant's application (dated 20 August 2021) to
apply to stay the enforcement of a possession order made against him by District Judge
Walsh in the County Court at Yeovil dated 24 January 2020 (the "Possession Order").
3. HHJ Cotter's reasons for refusing the application were that the basis of the application
was in order to invite HHJ Mathews to reconsider his determination that the appellant's
application for permission to appeal the Possession Order was totally without merit, and
to have one particular point (relevant to ground 8 of his grounds of appeal against the
Possession Order) determined at an oral hearing.
4. HHJ Cotter held that the court has no jurisdiction to go behind the order of HHJ Matthews,
refusing permission to appeal and certifying the appeal grounds as totally without merit.
The appellant had been represented by counsel at the hearing before DJ Walsh and there
had been full argument. HHJ Matthews had carefully considered the nine grounds of
appeal, and in lengthy reasons had dismissed all nine grounds and certified them as totally
without merit. There was accordingly no realistic prospect of persuading HHJ Matthews
to reconsider his conclusion on the basis of an argument not previously raised, and the
application for a stay of the order was therefore refused.
5. In my judgment, that decision of HHJ Cotter was clearly one that he was entitled to reach,
involved no error of law and fell within the proper ambit of discretion open to him. The
attempt to add a further argument in support of a ground of appeal that had already been
dismissed was clearly too late. This is reinforced by the fact that HHJ Matthews had in the
interim dismissed (by his order of 23 June 2021) an application by the appellant dated 15
June 2021 to add a new ground of appeal to those already dismissed by HHJ Matthews by
his order of 12 January 2021. I can see no realistic prospect of a successful appeal against
Page 251 of 311
HHJ Cotter's decision, and the application for permission to appeal is similarly totally
without merit.
Service of the Order:
The court has provided a sealed copy of this order to the Appellant, Mr Rupert Webster, a
litigant in person
Page 252 of 311
