NEUTRAL CITATION NUMBER: [2015] EWHC 1399 (CH)
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
BRISTOL DISTRICT REGISTRY
-and-
IN THE COUNTY COURT AT BRISTOL
BETWEEN:
Before:
Case No: A00TA241, B30BS071, B30BS107
Bristol Civil and Family Justice Centre
2 Redcliff Street
Bristol
BS1 6GR
HIS HONOUR JUDGE MCCAHILL QC
Sitting as a High Court Judge
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
and
JOHN PENLEY & ANOR
Transcript from a recording by Ubiqus
61 Southwark Street, London SE1 OHL
Tel: 020 7269 0370
MR WEBSTER appeared In Person
MR O WOODING appeared on behalf of the Defendants
APPROVED JUDGMENT
1
Monday, 23rd March 2015
Page 56 of 380
HHJ MCCAHILL QC:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
These are related proceedings with a complicated history.
They follow on from the dismissal by His Honour Judge Purle QC, in May 2013, of
proceedings (HC09C01570) commenced by Rupert St John Webster ("Mr Webster") in
London in relation to The Priory, Ash Priors, Taunton Somerset, a property long associated
with the various branches of the Webster family.
In those proceedings, Mr Webster unsuccessfully sought both to claim an interest in the
Priory, or part of it, in proprietary estoppel on behalf of his late father's ("Valentine") estate
and to challenge the May 2006 Will of Valentine's mother, Valerie.
The registered freehold proprietors of The Priory are, since its registration on 22 July 2014,
Mr Webster's aunt, Alison Virginia Ashcroft, and Mr Penley, a solicitor. They hold the
registered legal estate as trustees and/or executors. Since 1996, they had been trustees of the
same land when it was unregistered.
I am going to deliver judgment by reference to each set of new proceedings commenced in
2014 and 2015. However, there are or were many more claims between Mr Webster and the
trustees. Mr Webster has applied to the European Court of Human Rights in respect of the
decision of Judge Purle QC.
The background to the Taunton proceedings.
6.
7.
In claim number A00TA241, issued on 29 September 2014 in the County Court at Taunton,
Mr Webster sought summary possession under CPR 55 of the north wing of The Priory,
Ash Priors, Taunton, Somerset.
This, or part of it, had been previously occupied from 1995 until early September 2014 by
Mr Webster's mother (and Valentine's widow), Jennifer, under a licence granted by the
trustees to Valentine and his family in 2001 and 2004. Following Valentine's death, the
2
Page 57 of 380
8.
9.
10.
trustees allowed Jennifer to continue to occupy the property.
In his letter to Mr Webster on 15 August 2014, Mr Penley had written:
"
"... As far as The Priory is concerned, I am, of course, aware that your mother lives there
and that you stay there regularly as her guest (and with the permission of Mrs Ashcroft).
Indeed, I understand that this is now where you live, except when your work takes you
abroad. In my capacity as the other legal owner of The Priory, I have no objection to this as
long as your mother is there and she and Mrs Ashcroft consent, although I would ask that
you take every step to ensure that you conduct yourself in a respectful and polite way
towards them; I am sure you will. I do not recognise that you have the right to live in The
Priory in any other capacity..."
"
By agreement between the trustees and Jennifer, Jennifer ceased her occupation of the
property in order to move to her mother's house elsewhere in early September 2014. Also
by agreement with the trustees, some of Jennifer's furniture continued to be stored at the
property for the time being and Jennifer is or was able to gain access to this by providing
notice in advance to Alison Virginia Ashcroft.
The Taunton proceedings were issued on 29 September 2014, shortly after an email was
sent by Mr Penley to Mr Webster at 21:20 on 10 September 2014:
"Dear Mr Webster, now that your mother has left the Priory, I am writing to confirm on
behalf of Mrs Ashcroft and myself as the legal owners that you no longer have permission to
live at or visit The Priory and therefore you should not access it or enter the house or
grounds. We have now given the exclusive right to occupy The Priory and its grounds to
other family members and they have been authorised to refuse access to anyone including
yourself who does not have our written authority to be at The Priory. The local police are
being informed accordingly in case there any incidents but it is very much hoped that it will
not be necessary to involve them.
3
Page 58 of 380
11.
12.
13.
If you want to have access to visit your Father's grave, arrangements can be made for this
by prior arrangement confirmed in writing by us and on your written undertaking that you
will only be at there for that specific purpose and you will not attempt to access or enter
any other part of the property.
Yours sincerely,
John Penley
Private Client Partner
WSP Solicitors...
وو
Mr Webster acknowledged receipt of that email on 23 September 2014 in a letter (sent by
email at 17:04 on that date) in which he continued to assert a proprietary claim in respect of
The Priory.
The witness statement of Alison Virginia Ashcroft, dated 30 December 2014, described
how, at 7.30 pm on 23 September 2014, having locked the doors of The Priory where she
was living as caretaker, she heard a rattle at the kitchen door and the barking of the dog. She
found no-one there. She then went to and opened front door and walked out to the front
gate, as she was expecting the arrival of her sister. Mr Webster then appeared from her left
and then walked through the open front door. She was shaken by this, as it was dark. She
told Mr Webster that he should not be there and he told her that he owned the house and
that she should not be there.
Mrs Ashcroft rang the police who were unable to do anything. Mr Webster had his bed and
boxes of books in the car and during the night he brought them in and put them upstairs but
left the bed in parts. By the morning he had left. He had locked the door where his mother
used to sleep and had bolted her old kitchen door from the inside so that it could not be
entered from inside the house. As he had no key to the outside kitchen door, he had climbed
out through a window.
Page 59 of 380
14.
15.
16.
17.
She was advised to have security officers who came in due course. Shortly after, the police
telephoned to say that Mr Webster needed access to the property to take his belongings
especially his passport. That evening Mr Webster and the police attended and the policeman
entered the house to collect the belongings on Mr Webster's behalf.
It is the trustees' case that Mr Webster was not in occupation (actual or otherwise) of any
part of the property at the time of Mr Penley's email (above) to Mr Webster on 10
September 2014.
Mr Webster's original claim form in the Taunton proceedings was not entirely clear as to
his alleged right to possession. At the first directions hearing, on 21 November 2014, of
those summary proceedings, Mr Webster outlined the various ways in which he claimed
that he was entitled to possession of the north wing as against the trustee defendant
registered freehold proprietors, namely his aunt Alison Virginia Ashcroft and Mr Penley, a
solicitor.
District Judge Woodburn took the view that the claimant had not provided much material to
go on, and that what there was seemed at first sight to be inconsistent with the decision of
His Honour Judge Purle QC in the London proceedings, who had dismissed the claim
brought by Mr Webster as the personal representative of his late father Valentine Webster
for an equity in the property by way of proprietary estoppel and upheld the May 2006 Will.
18. Therefore, the District Judge made an order striking out those Taunton proceedings as
disclosing no reasonable cause of action, unless Mr Webster filed properly particularised
amended particulars of claim, which he duly did on or about 5 December 2014.
19. Mr Webster had originally indicated that one of the strings to his bow might be a claim for
adverse possession. However, when it came to drafting his amended particulars of claim, he
put his case on the alternative bases of (i) a tenancy of or (ii) a licence to occupy the
property.
5
Page 60 of 380
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
20. The case for the tenancy seemed to be based on the fact that Judge Purle QC had accepted
that there had been monetary payments made by Mr Webster's family, which had enjoyed
exclusive occupation of an area of the property and on the authority of Street v Mountford
[1985] AC 809.
Mr Webster's alternative case was that he occupied the property as a licensee, but no clear
basis for the licence was set out in the amended particulars of claim and, contrary to the
procedural rules of CPR 55, Mr Webster had not filed a witness statement in support of it as
required.
As the next hearing, on 10 March 2015, approached, but still long out of time for the
provision of evidence, Mr Webster sought to provide witness evidence. Because he was out
of time for serving any evidence, it was unclear whether he could rely on it on 10 March
2015. He had made no application for relief against sanctions in the Taunton Court to allow
its late submission.
However, in later High Court proceedings, separately issued in Bristol on 2 March 2015
(B30BS107), he applied for an order that he be allowed to serve that evidence late. Of
course, that was in the wrong court. That application should have been made to the court at
Taunton, to which I directed him.
On 9 March 2015, Mr Webster applied to The County Court at Taunton for an order that
"The Claimant's skeleton argument and reference bundle, including witness statements, are
delivered to Deputy Judge Orme, prior to his hearing case A00TA241 on 10 March 2015'.
On that same day, Deputy District Judge Offen considered the application and ordered that
"The application is not practical or appropriate. Applicant to serve all papers to the County
Court at Taunton today and also deliver copies to the Respondent's solicitors.'
It is not entirely clear whether permission was given or not. However, Mr Webster had tried
to get permission to serve the evidence late by commencing fresh High Court proceedings
6
Page 61 of 380
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
and by making a late request to the court at Taunton to do so.
Therefore, the position we are in today is that there is or maybe no formally permitted
witness statement from Mr Webster, even though they are in Mr Webster's bundle and I
have read them.
That evidence seeks to raise a case, which does not allege a tenancy. Any case based on a
tenancy had been abandoned or deleted by a further amendment before Deputy District
Judge Orme on 10 March 2015, who had also struck out paragraphs 3, 4, 7 and 8 of the
amended particulars of claim (raising matters aired before Judge Purle QC) as showing no
cause of action and/or as an abuse of process. The court also certified that those paragraphs
were totally without merit. To the extent that Mr Webster's evidence evidence seeks to
raise a case of adverse possession, that is not a case which was expressly pleaded in those
amended particulars of claim.
Therefore, Deputy District Judge Orme struck out the entirety of the summary possession
claim in Taunton County Court, except for a residual claim which was based upon the facts
that (i) Mr Webster had been a bare licensee of the property (ii) the locks had been changed
and (iii) Mr Webster had (arguably) been wrongly excluded from occupation (he alleged he
was in occupation), in respect of which he claimed aggravated and exemplary damages.
Today, in the course of his submissions, Mr Webster accepted that he never had a licence
from the trustees and that any licence he had came from his mother or from his late father.
His mother, Jennifer, has filed an affidavit saying that if he, Mr Webster, was at the
property, he was there as her guest to see his children. She had vacated in early September
2014 to move in elsewhere with her own mother. Therefore, there was no relevant
permission, which survived Jennifer's departure. Mr Webster could have no greater right
than his mother. She had acknowledged that he was only there as her guest, and she had
herself left.
7
Page 62 of 380
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
She made it plain that she had had no proprietary interest at all in the property, but had
occupied it courtesy of the trustees about whom she made no complaint at all.
The licence, insofar as it was based upon his mother, no longer existed. Any licence from
his father had died with his father years previously, as he too was only a licensee.
However, Mr Webster's case was that his licence was not just a permissive or purely
personal one. He did not accept that his father, Valentine, only had a bare licence to occupy
the property which could be taken away at any time, and that he, Mr Webster, was confined
by that licence.
Mr Webster's case is: 'My father allowed me to stay because he had a right, a property
right, which enabled him to allow me to be there'.
The problem is that that any such property right was found not to exist by Judge Purle QC
in the London proceedings, which had been commenced by Mr Webster as his late father's
personal representative. At best, therefore, since Valentine had no proprietary right - see
the judgment of Judge Purle QC - all he could do was, as a father, allow his son as his guest
to be there during his lifetime.
Valentine's permission to be there died with him and so therefore died Mr Webster's
permission derived from his mother or father's personal licences.
He has said to me today that he has never had a licence from the trustees, so it follows that
he can put forward, as against the trustees, no justifiable claim for occupation because the
people who own it never gave him permission. Therefore, as against them, he must have
been a trespasser.
That was the only element of those proceedings left alive by the order of Deputy District
Judge Orme in Taunton, namely the claim by Mr Webster against the defendant trustees that
he was a bare licensee. Yet, by his own admission, he accepted that he has not got such a
claim against those trustees.
8
Page 63 of 380
40. However there are two variations on that simple theme. The first is that Mr Webster may be
41.
42.
43.
being unduly restrictive on himself and he might say, 'Well, in all the circumstances it was
a family home. It is my aunt who was one of the co-owners. I have an implied licence to
be there, even though it was not given to me expressly by the trustees.'
The difficulty with that is that, on 10 September 2014, he was notified that any licence had
been revoked. Against a background of Mr Webster's saying he never had a licence from
the trustees, whatever he did have had been revoked on 10 September 2014. It seems to me
that that is the answer.
In September 2014, The Priory was not his primary home and, in all the circumstances, he
had been given reasonable notice to leave it: see the letters of 15 August and 10 September
2014. Certainly, by the time that the trustees came to commence the proceedings against
him in March 2015 in Bristol (B30BS071) alleging trespass, there could be no doubt but
that more than enough time had passed to constitute reasonable notice to leave.
There are problems, even within Mr Webster's own case, because he disclaims a licence in
the first instance from the trustees. By 23/24 September 2014, reasonable notice had expired
given all the circumstances, including that he had been told to leave on 10 September 2014.
This was not then his primary home. His mother, whose guest he was, had given up
occupation and moved in with her own mother elsewhere.
Mr Webster's High Court Claim (B30BS107) in Bristol
44.
The second matter, which might be prayed in aid by Mr Webster, is the one he explained
today. It is highlighted in his amended particulars of claim in the case (B30BS107), which
he commenced in the High Court in Bristol. He said that if he were allowed to amend his
particulars of claim again in the Taunton case, he had an adverse possession claim against
the trustees because - and he said this was never dealt with in the proceedings in front of
Judge Purle QC - there was, on or about 6 April 1992, an informal contract of sale between
9
Page 64 of 380
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.
50.
his grandparents and Valentine under which Valentine - and, through him, Mr Webster -
would acquire ownership, either absolute or by way of successive life interests, over the
north wing of the property. The problem with that is also insurmountable.
First, it will be remembered that in the first formulation of his claim before the
District Judge in Taunton, Mr Webster, I am told, did raise the spectre of adverse
possession. However, when he came to draft his amended particulars of claim, on pain of
being struck out if he did not, not one word was mentioned about adverse possession. That
pleading referred only to a tenancy or licence. The tenancy argument was deleted by
amendment on 10 March 2015 and that left only the bare licence. It is this bare licence with
which I have dealt above..
Mr Webster is now seeking near argue adverse possession but, as I have said, he already
had the opportunity to do so and had disclaimed it, because he mentioned it first of all but
then did not put it in the amended particulars of claim.
We have spent some time today developing what the argument might be, if it were an
adverse possession claim.
I start with the overarching proposition that adverse possession is not the most promising of
arguments, bearing in mind that Mr Webster's earlier claims in the same proceedings were
that he was (a) a tenant, and (b) a licensee, both of which imply the permission of the true
owner to be there. A permissive presence is wholly inconsistent with adverse possession.
Nevertheless, leaving aside for the moment that inconsistency, as well as the inconsistency
of adverse possession with the earlier litigation in London alleging proprietary estoppel in
equity which would itself be an enforceable right as opposed to adverse possession, one
looks to see what are the bare bones of the adverse possession claim advanced by Mr
Webster.
It is evidenced, he says, in an attendance note of 6 April 1992 made by Mr Penley.
10
10
Page 65 of 380
51.
52.
53.
54.
55.
56.
6 April 1992 was the date upon which Anthony and Valerie Webster, (grandparents of Mr
Webster) transferred the land to the trustees, without making a life interest in favour of
Valentine or without transferring any property to Valentine. Everything went over to the
trustees.
There had been a discussion between Mr Penley (solicitor) and Anthony and Valerie, the
grandparents. Paragraph two of Mr Penley's attendance note was the relevant paragraph:
'Discussing whether Valentine shld be entitled to live in the hse and then
his son. Pointg out that this wld be a severe disadvantage to the rest of
the family and cld deprive them of thr inheritance for a long time. Ths
seemed quite unfair on yr other three children. You agreed with ths.
You felt tht if Valentine wanted to buy the hse thr was no reason why he
shld nt be entitled to do so and the other members of the family ought to
agree to buy his share of the Trust land to enable him to raise the
money'.
In other words, if Valentine wanted to buy the house, it would be possible to allow others to
buy out his share, give Valentine the money with which Valentine could then buy the land
from his parents.
There is nothing there to evidence an agreement or the structure of an agreement between
Valentine and his parents, whereby he would acquire any property interest. It is an
attendance note between solicitor and clients in which they are recorded as agreeing with
the advice, which was being given. A purchase for money of the land concerned was a
possibility, but there was no agreement to do so in that note.
The documentary evidence upon which Mr Webster relies to show the antecedent
agreement is not present. What if it were? What if one could tease from it the inference
that there was an agreement? Then one asks the question: Where was the money that was
paid for the land? How did Valentine buy this entitlement?
Mr Webster in his skeleton argument was alive to the need for consideration and he sought
to address this in paragraph 36 of his skeleton argument:
11
Page 66 of 380
57.
58.
59.
60.
'Valentine moved to The Priory in 1995. No formal documentation was
prepared for successive life interests or tenancies or other agreements.
However it can be said that valuable consideration for Valentine to buy
his right to The Priory was already paid in 1992 by Anthony and Valerie
having transferred Anthony's farm to the settlement trustees Virginia,
Antonia and Rory'.
I do not see how Anthony and Valerie's transferring their own land to the trustees
constitutes a payment by Valentine to anybody else.
For those two reasons - first there is no evidence to support the existence of offer and
acceptance between purchaser and seller and secondly no valuable consideration moving
from the purchaser- it seems to me that the essential foundation for the so-called buy-out or
informal agreement is completely missing.
Since Mr Webster's proposed claim, not yet pleaded in the Taunton proceedings, is that he
has and was meant to have an adverse possessory right based upon the buy-out agreement
plus 10 years' occupation, it falls at the first hurdle. There is not remotely the relevant
informal buy-out agreement demonstrated on the documentation. Indeed, the mechanism
for such a buy-out envisaged Valentine handing money over to buy property, and that never
happened.
I am in the unusual position of considering part of a claim in the Taunton proceedings,
which has not yet been clearly formulated, which Mr Webster said is what he meant by the
claim based as a licensee, even though the word 'licensee' implies permission, which is
inconsistent with adverse possession.
Nevertheless, whether viewed through the prism of the Taunton proceedings or whether
viewed in the context of a future application for permission to amend proceedings
B30BS107 to allege this, it seems to me that there is nothing in the Taunton proceedings,
which is capable of surviving.
13
12
Page 67 of 380
Striking out the Taunton Proceedings as totally without merit
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
I do strike out and dismiss the Taunton proceedings.
First there has been procedural non-compliance, namely the failure to file a witness
statement on time setting out the basis of the claim. The failure to do has caused me to
range widely not only to reject the claim which was made but also to raise the spectre of the
claim that has not been made before dismissing that. The failure in this case to supply the
statement is important. There were directions for the exchange of evidence, the trustees and
executors complied with their obligations, but Mr Webster did not.
This is not to be thought of as a mere technical or trivial breach. I acknowledge that, in
proceedings B30BS107 in the High Court, Mr Webster asked, albeit in the wrong
proceedings, for permission to serve the witness statement late. I directed that he had to
make that application, if he was going to make it at all, to the Taunton court before which
those proceedings were extant.
I would make the point, however, that even though I have seen the witness statements
which he wanted to use, even though he did ask in the wrong proceedings for permission to
serve witness statements out of time, the fact is that there were no relevant witness
statements filed or served in conformity with the timetable which had been set down
originally. They were very late in production.
There is a mismatch, on any view, between the amended particulars filed in Taunton and the
witness statements relied on. The witness statements alleged the informal buy-out point
indirectly. The informal buy-out point was not on the pleadings. I approach the case on the
basis that the Taunton proceedings contained no claim for adverse possession. The words,
'adverse possession' or 'Informal buy-out' do not appear.
The Taunton case was left with only one allegation surviving, namely that of a licence and
it is a licence, the case for which cannot get off the ground for the reasons I have just given.
13
Page 68 of 380
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
It died with father. Mother disowns it. The trustees did not grant the licence, even
according to Mr Webster.
Therefore, that part of the Taunton claim based on a licence cannot get off the ground. It
has no prospect of success. The licence was terminated and, if required, reasonable notice
was given.
Secondly, if one looked at the evidence for adverse possession in the witness statements,
even assuming that they were before the Court, they alleged the buy-out agreement which I
have just held does not get off the ground for the reasons I have given.
Either way, whether viewed through the pleadings or viewed through the witness
statements, there is nothing in those documents, which allows that Taunton claim in its
vestigial form to remain.
In a case where District Judge Woodburn had already indicated that, absent a proper and
particularised particulars of claim, all the allegations would be struck out, it is simply
unsatisfactory for one case to be run on the amended pleadings and another case to be run
through witness statements delivered hopelessly out of time. This resulted in the Taunton
case overrunning before a busy Deputy District Judge with a heavy list, who then had to
spend two hours on a case, which had a time estimate of one hour.
Suffice it to say that, whether viewed as a licence case or viewed as an adverse possession
claim, those proceedings in Taunton have no prospect of success at all and are struck out in
their entirety. They are totally without merit.
Draft Amended Particulars of Claim in B30BS107: Application to Amend Totally Without Merit
I turn then to Mr Webster's attempt to amend the claim in B30BS107 in the form of the
amended particulars of claim, which we have all seen for the first time only this morning.
There is no application notice and no fee has been paid in respect of this application. I have
nevertheless considered it as if the application had been validly made. Those draft amended
14
Page 69 of 380
73.
74.
75.
76.
77.
78.
79.
particulars of claim appear in the bundle which Mr Webster has produced for the hearing
today.
Those amended particulars of claim effectively graft on to the existing particulars of claim
in B30BS107 two new points. The first was the existence of the alleged informal buy-out
agreement, which I have just indicated does not have any prospect of success for the reasons
I have given. The second was an attempt to uphold a September 2006 Will. Judge Purle QC
had upheld the earlier May 2006 Will, the validity of which had been challenged by Mr
Webster. Not only did Judge Purle QC uphold the May 2006 will, but permission to appeal
that was refused both by Judge Purle QC and the Court of Appeal.
Therefore, the two additional components present in the amended particulars of claim do
not get off the ground. I refuse permission to amend the particulars of claim in the form of
the draft put before me and certify that that application is totally without merit.
They are but the draft amended particulars of claim. What about the original claim in claim
B30BS107?
Mr Webster issued this new High Court claim, stating:
'The brief details of claim.
This is a claim in:
service of a defence and counter-claim out of time to claim B3BS071 ..."
B30BS071 is the claim commenced by the trustees and executors in Bristol on 9 February
2015 seeking injunctions restraining Mr Webster from trespassing and from slandering their
title to the property.
In respect of that, no defence and counter-claim has yet been filed by Mr Webster in
opposition to the trustee and executors' claim for trespass, injunction and slander of title. I
shall return to that.
Another component of Mr Webster's claim B30BS107 was a claim for permission to serve
15
Page 70 of 380
