attend the property to meet with Mrs St. John Webster in order to
collect the keys. We attended the property at around 1.30-2pm on
31 July 2018. When we arrived, Jennifer St. John Webster was still
removing items from her house, placing those within a trailer."
10.
It goes on at (5) to say that she then provided keys. There is a statement from the
aforementioned Claire Crumb at paragraph (2), and that also states that on 31 July 2018
she was tasked with attending Bondip Farmhouse in order to accept keys from
Jennifer St. John Webster, who had been in the property that day. At paragraph (4) it
contains the concession that Mrs St. John Webster mentioned that some of her personal
belongings were still within the property, and then at (5) it says:
"We left the property at around 3.30. Before doing so, Mrs St.
John Webster signed our usual final inspection form, where she
confirmed she had given Greenslade Taylor Hunt all the keys to the
property."
11.
That is then an exhibit to the statement. It reflects what is said in the statement. It is
dated 31 July 2018. It contains a list of keys that have been handed over, and it says
within it that "I confirm that I have given Greenslade Taylor Hunt all the keys for the
property and left it secure and in good order". It is then signed by Jennifer St. John
Webster.
12. Finally, there is a statement from Lesley Gaskell which says, "I understand that
Jennifer St. John Webster, who occupied the property whilst caring for her elderly
mother, returned the keys and vacated the property on 31 July 2018", and then I should
add there is a statement from David John Lees of Porter Dodson Solicitors, which
refers to and evidences that on 23 April 2019 notices to quit were sent out by post on
behalf of the claimants, and copies of those notices to quit were contained within my
bundle. At paragraph 8 it goes on: “I have had sight of an email from the executor,
Jennifer St. John Webster, and Greenslade Taylor Hunt acting for the freeholder, dated
3 July 2018, provided by Greenslade Taylor Hunt”. That of course confirms that
Greenslade Taylor Hunt were acting with the authority of the claimants, and that has
not been seriously challenged today. The email of 3 July is exhibited 2018. It is an
5
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 183 of 380
email timed at 12.51. In its header it says it is from Jenny St. John Webster, and it
reads as follows:
13.
14.
"I will be moving out of Bondip Farmhouse at the end of July. My
sister from Scotland is coming down to help me for two weeks
from 9 July. It will be quite an ordeal as my mother lived there for
70 years, amazingly. We are doing it in two stages, my own things
on 16, 17 July to the cottage, then Lawrences of Crewkerne carries
the large brown furniture as well as the white furniture (my
mother's) on 24 July."
It goes on:
"Rupert, my son, who comes here at weekends, has been told to
move his books and boxes in the old office, his files in the dining
room and clothes in the bedroom, also some things in the stables.
He does not like change (I think an autistic trait) but needs must.
When he actually sees the moving taking place, I sincerely hope he
will do the same and leave Bondip vacant. I trust this will be all as
it should. I just need to downsize and have some peace in
retirement income too after being a carer for twelve years and
before reaching 80, and I intend to go to live in Bath with one of
my daughters."
When the application came before me on 10 October, I was concerned that the second
defendant should have the opportunity to put in evidence in reply to the issue of
surrender and indeed, if it were to be contradicted, any evidence about the service of
the notices to quit. That evidence runs to some twelve paragraphs, in fact unendorsed
with a statement of truth but I do not take any issue with that. At paragraph (8) it says
this:
15.
"Jennifer St. John Webster handing over her keys on 31 July 2018
was neither a surrender of the lease or of the right to enfranchise
under a long lease. The second defendant had not vacated the
property and the claimants knew and were aware of that. There
was no need to start calling the remaining occupier "persons
unknown" [which is of course an allusion or reference to the point I
made earlier about the name on the proceedings]."
The position of the defendant, articulated carefully by Mr Trevis, is that I should
proceed with caution on this issue because he says that the claimants knew that their
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 184 of 380
agents, in turn, knew that his client had not cleared his belongings and, moreover,
implicit in that was that he himself had retained keys. If follows, he says, that even if
the executrix delivered up all of her keys, she was not delivering up all of the keys to
the property because everyone concerned knew or might have reasonably inferred that
the second defendant still had a set.
16.
17.
This being an application to strike out the defence on grounds that it has no reasonable
prospect or no reasonable grounds for succeeding, it seems to me that it is proper that I
approach this issue taking the defendant's evidence at its height. Namely, that after a
trial the best that the second defendant can hope to succeed in establishing is that the
named executrix in occupation delivered up or ostensibly delivered up all of the keys in
her possession to agents for the landlord on 31 July, that she had communicated that
she was moving out and hoped in her email that her son would do the same but that her
son probably retained a set of keys and, indeed, possessions at the property.
Counsel for the parties agree that the test for surrender by operation of law is
accurately summarised in the latest edition of Megarry & Wade's Law of Real
Property, 9th Edition, at paragraph 17-086. That says this:
"Surrender by operation of law requires some act by the parties
showing an intention to terminate the lease, in circumstances such
that it would be inequitable for them to rely on the fact that there
has been no surrender by deed. The matter is determined
objectively, asking whether the parties have acted towards each
other in a way which is inconsistent with the continuation of the
tenancy. Although the conduct of the parties must point
unequivocally to the termination of the tenancy, their subjective
intentions
irrelevant."
are
18.
Taking the defendant's case at its height, objectively construed, was the delivery up of
all of her keys by the executor in occupation an act which can properly be said to be an
unequivocal termination of the tenancy by conduct? It is my view that it is. Where a
tenant (in this case the sole executor who had been in occupation of the property with
the deceased) hands over all of the keys that she possesses, signs a document
confirming that she has done so and communicates her intention to live elsewhere, the
7
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 185 of 380
19.
20.
only proper construction of that act is that she is handing over possession to the
landlord and looking to determine the tenancy. The fact that her son has not acted in
concert with her, despite her professed hope that he would, or the fact that any third
party remains in occupation notwithstanding those acts, is not in my view on the facts
of this case sufficient to allow me to conclude that there is a triable issue. Objectively
construed, I am satisfied that even though I am assuming that he had left possessions in
the property and retained the keys, a proper construction of these acts points
unequivocally to an intention to end the lease.
That is sufficient to dispose of this application and to do so in favour of the claimants,
but the case does not end there for a number of reasons. One is that the claimants have
other arguments in their armoury, and the other is that the defendant says in any event
that there are issues of res judicata, abuse of process and issue estoppel which I need to
address; those are submissions that are properly made and that I do need to address.
The second point that the claimants rely upon is that it is said that no valid notice to
enfranchise was served by a party with standing to do so. It is the defendant's position
that this is a lease to which rights of enfranchisement under the 1967 Act attach, and
his case was paraphrased by counsel for the claimant in his first careful submission, I
think accurately, in these terms: that it is the second defendant's case that a claim to
enfranchisement was made on 29 August and was current or extant and, whether or not
sustainable, prevented termination of the lease by effluxion of time, or the notices to
quit that I have indicated, it seems to be common ground, were indeed served in April
2019.
21.
Regarding the question of whether or not a valid notice was served, it should be
common ground that the construction of notices is again an exercise in objective
construction. As I have already alluded to, in his pleaded case the second defendant
says that he acted with the authority of the personal representatives of Patricia Marrow.
Indeed, today he went further and asserted through his counsel that he was in fact an
executor or PR. He was no such thing. The executors were his mother and also, it
would seem, his aunt. Two documents were relied upon by the Defendant to then say
8
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 186 of 380
that, whether or not he was in fact an executor personally, he was acting with the
authority of the executor, namely his mother. First, there is a document dated 13
September 2018. That of course postdates the date of the notice to enfranchise. It
bears a claim number. It contains much of the header to proceedings. It is titled
"Minute of declaration". It says, "Upon reading the 6 Match 1995 lease between
Prudence Neal and Edward Marrow and Patricia Marrow (the tenants), it is declared (1)
Mr Rupert St. John Webster is authorised to act for the tenants". In my view, that
document conferred no authority at all to serve the notice which predated it.
22. The second document that is relied upon, though, is one dated 12 October 2019. That,
of course, was two days after the last hearing in this court before me. Again it is
headed "Minute of declaration", and it reads as follows: "Upon reading the 29 August
2018 notice to purchase issued by Mr Rupert St. John Webster, which is declared, I
approve of and consent with the notice to purchase", and it is signed by Mrs Jennifer
St. John Webster. That is, and is acknowledged by the claimants to be, an attempt to
retrospectively ratify the notice to enfranchise in August 2018. There is (and this is
notwithstanding my order permitting them to do so) no evidence at all that the second
defendant had been given prior authority or was acting as agent for his mother at the
time the August 2018 notice was served. This, it seems to me, is an attempt to
retrospectively clothe an act that was taken in a personal capacity with the veneer of
agency and to suggest that it was in fact the act of, and should be ratified as the act of,
Mrs St. John Webster acting through her agent.
23.
There is nothing before me to allow the court to reach the conclusion that Mr Rupert
Webster was acting as his mother's agent at that time. On the contrary, I am quite
satisfied that on a proper construction of the document he was very clearly acting in a
personal capacity. The notice is signed by him as tenant. It does not refer to the
executors anywhere. It says, "I am the tenant, it is in exercise of my rights under the
Act". In fact, the only mention of Mrs Jennifer St. John Webster is the fact that it is
said that a copy has been served upon her of the notice, and in particular the passage
that I have already read from the schedule is very telling:
9
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 187 of 380
"As set out within the defendant's first statement, she was my
grandmother [this in reference to Mrs Marrow]. I rely on the rights
of members of the family succeeding to the tenancy and on my
rights to reasonable financial provision by the Inheritance Act
1975."
24.
25.
That is plainly in the character of a personal claim. There is no suggestion that Mrs St.
John Webster was asserting claims under the Inheritance Act. It is only the second
defendant who was doing so. Indeed, why would his mother have made any such
claim? She was a beneficiary of the estate. In my view that is fatal to the second
defendant's assertion that he served a notice on behalf of, and with the authority of, the
executors. It was no such notice. That notice is not a notice from the tenants and is for
practical purposes therefore irrelevant.
I turn, then, to Mr Trevis's argument that the proceedings were an abuse of process, and
this requires that I return to the order of Deputy District Judge Collins. In the recitals
to that order in the previous proceedings, it relates that the court had heard from the
solicitors and counsel for the defendants, and it continued in the recitals:
"And upon the parties agreeing that the claim should be adjourned
to allow the defendants the opportunity to investigate and apply for
the enfranchisement of the property, it is ordered that:
(1) the claim be adjourned generally with liberty to either party to
apply to restore;
(2) if no application is made by 4 pm on 6 June 2019, the claim be
dismissed without need for further order."
26.
27.
What Mr Trevis
That, of course, is what happened. The claim was dismissed.
therefore says is that, in the circumstances, the right to enfranchise was effectively
adjudicated upon and that it would not be right in those circumstances to decide this
case upon the footing that there was no extant right to enfranchise.
I do not accept that submission, well put though it was. First of all it is, in my view,
unsupportable given the recitals I have just read out and which related that the parties
10
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 188 of 380
were going to investigate and apply for the enfranchisement of the property. It is
implicit in that, that the issue of enfranchisement remained to be adjudicated upon. It
cannot be treated as decided simply because the possession claim was struck out.
Secondly enfranchisement requires, by its very nature, a separate claim or application
before the First-Tier Tribunal or the Leasehold Valuation Tribunal (as appropriate).
Thirdly a right to claim possession is not lost for all time if a claim for possession is
struck out. If the trespasser remains in occupation, it is an ongoing trespass. It is not,
therefore, an abuse of process to issue further proceedings for possession. There may
be the sanction of an adverse costs order if further costs have been incurred which
ought not to have been by reason of the second claim (i.e. when it could have been
restored in the first claim) but that is generally the likely limit. Moreover, on the
authorities the court must take a broad, merits-based approach, to issues of abuse and
whether or not the question of a second claim is an abuse. In my view, quite clearly,
here it cannot be characterised as such.
28.
More generally, I would add this. Section 3(1) of the 1967 Act requires a long lease, a
qualifying lease for the right of enfranchisement to arise. This lease is not in my view
capable of enfranchisement by anyone, as it is not a long lease as defined by section
3(1) of the 1967 Act. Such a tenancy is broadly a tenancy exceeding a term of 21
years, and under section 3(1) the Act says this:
"Provided that a tenancy granted so as to become terminable by
notice after a death, a marriage or the formation of a civil
partnership is not to be treated as a long tenancy if --
(a) the notice is capable of being given at any time after the death
or marriage of or the formation of a civil partnership by, the tenant;
(b) the length of the notice is not more than three months; and
(c) the terms of the tenancy preclude both --
(i) its assignment otherwise than by virtue of section 92 of the
Housing Act 1985 (assignments by way of exchange), and
(ii) the sub-letting of the whole of the premises comprised in it."
11
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 189 of 380
29.
Here, clause 3(1) of the lease includes a covenant by the tenant not to assign, underlet
or part with or share possession of the premises or any part of the premises, whilst
clause 5(1) provides as follows:
"If, at any time after the death of the survivor of the tenants, the
landlord gives to the tenants' personal representatives or
administrator or to the person in whom the term is then vested at
least one month's previous notice in writing of their desire to
determine the tenancy expiring on any day on which the rent is
payable under the lease, then immediately upon the expiration of
the notice this demise and everything contained in it shall cease and
be
void."
30.
31.
The claimants say that this means that any claim to enfranchisement is bound to fail. I
agree. In order to try and circumvent the effect of the Act, a number of arguments have
been deployed in reliance on the construction of other provisions within the Act. I
have not been persuaded that they have any merit in law. There was an argument
based on section 3(2) of the Act. It says:
"Where the tenant of any property under a long tenancy at a low
rent (other than a lease excluded from the operation of this Part by
section 33A of and Schedule 4A to this Act), on the coming to an
end of that tenancy, becomes or has become tenant of the property
or part of it under another tenancy (whether by express grant or by
implication of law), then the later tenancy shall be deemed for the
purposes of this Part of this Act, including any further application
of this subsection, to be a long tenancy irrespective of its terms."
What is said is that this lease (by which I mean the 1995 lease) was a successor lease to
a 1948 tenancy and that therefore this should be regarded as a long tenancy because the
1948 lease may have been a long lease. Nobody has a copy of the 1948 tenancy. That
is not available to the court. There is no suggestion it would be available to the court
were we to go to trial. That being so, I must decide whether or not it is probable that
the 1948 tenancy, or the defendant can make out his case that the 1948 tenancy, was a
long lease. In that respect I regard his prospects as weak in the extreme. Without a
copy of the tenancy, how can the court determine that it was a long tenancy? I take the
view that it cannot. Moreover, as a matter of inference, given that the 1995 tenancy
12
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 190 of 380
32.
33.
34.
was not a long tenancy, there is every reason to suppose (and in my view it is more
probable than not) that the earlier tenancy mirrored the terms of the later one. I cannot
envisage a situation in which the court would make an inference to the contrary absent
any evidence in support.
There was an argument based on section 1(b) of the 1967 Act which provides that:
"Where a tenancy granted so as to become terminable by notice
after a death, a marriage or the formation of a civil partnership --
(a) is (apart from this section) a long tenancy in accordance with
section 3(1) below, but
(b) was granted before 18th April 1980 or in pursuance of a
contract entered into before that date,
then (notwithstanding section 3(1)) the tenancy shall be a long
tenancy ..."
But that applies only where (apart from the section) it is a long tenancy in accordance
with section 3(1). It is not applicable on the facts of this case. Section 1(b) is of no
relevance. It only applies where there is (apart from the section) a long tenancy under
subsection 3(1). That is not the case here.
Finally there was an argument based on section 6A, "Rights of personal
representatives". I do not need to go into that in any great detail. That, it seems to me,
is plainly directed at preserving the rights for PRs where those rights existed in the
body of the tenant prior to death. That is not the case here. So section 6A simply takes
this case no further forward at all.
35.
So, in all the circumstances of the case, I am quite satisfied that, were this matter to
trial, there would be only one outcome, and that is an order for possession. The
arguments raised in the defence are not arguments that have a reasonable prospect of
succeeding, and in the circumstances I have concluded that the statement of case
(namely the defence) discloses no reasonable grounds for defending the claim It is,
therefore, in all the parties' interests that I should exercise my discretion to strike out
13
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 191 of 380
36.
the defence and order possession today. The costs and heartache for all concerned of
this matter going further, with no real prospect of any other outcome, should be
avoided at all costs.
It follows, I should add, that the application that was made to me in the course of
submissions to make a declaration that the second defendant has a right to purchase the
freehold is not a declaration that it would be appropriate on the facts or the law, nor, I
might add, as a matter of procedure. Even if I had found for the defendant in every
other respect, there was no pleaded claim before me today for such a declaration.
14
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 192 of 380
Epiq Europe Ltd hereby certify that the above is an accurate and complete record of the
proceedings or part thereof.
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
15
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 193 of 380
IN THE COUNTY COURT AT YEOVIL
Case No: F00YE161
BEFORE:
DISTRICT JUDGE WALSH
BETWEEN:
The Law Courts
Petters Way
Yeovil
Somerset BA20 1SW
Thursday, 16 January 2020
TRUSTEES OF JS NEAL ESTATE (DECEASED)
- and -
(1) PERSONS UNKNOWN
(2) RUPERT JOHN WEBSTER
MR M CLARKE appeared on behalf of the Claimant
The First Respondents did not attend and were not represented
MR R TREVIS appeared on behalf of the Second Defendant
PROCEEDINGS
Claimant
Defendants
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol, BS32 4NE
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/ Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance with relevant
licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the case
concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the applicable
information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the internet, including
social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making sure that applicable
restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment. For
guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask at the court office or take legal advice.
1
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 194 of 380
(2.27 pm)
Thursday, 16 January 2020
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes, Mr Clarke.
MR CLARKE: Thank you, sir. This is the adjourned hearing from 10 October. The purpose of
the adjournment of the previous hearing was, I think, twofold. One was to allow the
second defendant, if he wished to, to produce any further evidence in response to the
witness statements produced before the last hearing, particularly from the agents, going to
the surrender point, and also the witness statements went to another point, which was the
service or otherwise of the notice to quit dated 23 April 2019.
SUBMISSIONS BY MR CLARKE
MR CLARKE: Sir, you heard a lot of submissions last time about the operation of the 1967 Act.
At that previous hearing and now, the principal submission on behalf of the claimants is
that
you need go no further in order to decide this case summarily today, which it's
submitted ought to be done, than to, as a matter of fact, consider whether or not you can
deal today with the surrender point, the simple issue being, of course, if the lease was
surrendered on 31 July 2018, as is said by the claimants, supported by the evidence that
was produced, being the witness statements of Natalie Rendle, Claire Crumb and David
John Lees -- and I'll take you to those in a moment then it becomes a very simple matter
because in response to the adjournment, no rebuttal of any of that evidence at all has been
made by the second claimant.
--
So, when it comes to dealing with it summarily either by virtue of the application
for a strike out or simply because this adjourned hearing was listed to determine, if you
consider fit, the case summarily rather than give directions, if you're satisfied that a case
has been out on the evidence produced and there has been no rebuttal then, in my
submission, it's as simple as that and you don't need to go any further.
If I may deal with the surrender point first, perhaps I'll firstly take you to the
witness statement of Natalie Rendle. That's at page 154 of the bundle.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you.
MR CLARKE: Now, you'll see, sir, that she says at paragraph 3 that on 31 July she attended
upon Jennifer St John Webster, she provided the keys and she left -- in law, a
2
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 195 of 380
straightforward surrender, handing over the keys and leaving the property to agents for the
landlord. It's difficult to think of anything clearer. We have support for that for the next
witness statement from Claire Crumb at page -
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Forgive me, Mr Clarke. One point that I was keen should be
addressed was - and it may well be that it's conceded -- where is the evidence that
Greenslade Taylor Hunt were acting as agents for William Gaskell at the time?
--
MR CLARKE: Well, we have a witness statement from David Lees. I'll take you to that.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: 174?
MR CLARKE: Page 174.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes.
MR CLARKE: If you look at paragraph 8, it says there:
"Furthermore, I have sight of an email from executor Jennifer St John
Webster and Greenslade Taylor Hunt (acting for the freeholder)."
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes, okay. Thank you. Yes, thank you.
MR CLARKE: So I think that should be sufficient, sir.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you. Sorry, you were taking me through Ms Rendle's
statement.
MR CLARKE: Of course. In fact, could I move on, please, to the statement of Claire Crumb.
That effectively corroborates what is said there but goes a bit further in as much as if you
look at paragraph 5 on page 157 it has there an exhibit to it, CC1, and it's explained in the
statement that this is a form that was filled out at the scene, so to speak, by Claire Crumb.
If you look at the bottom, sir, page 159, it's signed by Jennifer St John Webster, dated
31 July 2018, and it's clearly -- and it's not been construed as anything else a handover of
the keys because if you look at the top it says, "Keys 31 July 2018," and it lists the keys. It
doesn't say, "Handed over," but it then goes on to say on the declaration:
--
"I confirm that I have given Greenslade Taylor Hunt all the keys for the
property and left it secure and in good order."
In my submission, it's difficult to find that signed form by Jennifer St John Webster to be
anything other than contemporaneous evidence of a surrender of the lease made on 31 July
2018. Of course, I repeat the point that, despite the adjournment, absolutely no evidence
has been produced to rebut that.
3
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 196 of 380
If you require further support for that, sir, could I take you, please, to page 178,
which is an attachment or an exhibit to the witness statement of David Lees. Now, sir, you
can see there are two email blocks where you can see the parties to it. Could I take you,
please, to the bottom one. You'll see this is from Jennifer St John Webster dated 3 July. It
clearly says, "I will be moving out of Bondip(?) Farmhouse at the end of July," which of
course corroborates the evidence you've just seen. Sir, you may want to, of course, read
through it all, but I would take you in particular to the penultimate paragraph which says:
"Rupert, my son, who comes here at weekends, has been told to move his
books in boxes in the old office, his files in the dining room and clothes in
the bedroom, also some things in the stables. He does not like change, I
think an autistic trait, but needs must. When he actually sees the moving
taking place I sincerely hope that he will do the same and leave Bondip
vacant."
Sir, of course that does two things: it supports the surrender on 31 July 2018 and it also
gives the lie to the evidence of the second defendant that he was and has remained since
31 July in the property with the permission of Jennifer St John Webster, even if she were
able to do that, which, in my submission, of course she is not.
Sir, I make the point in my second skeleton argument paragraph 5 by reference to
the new evidence of the second defendant at page 111D, if I could take you to that very
briefly. Could I pick it up at paragraph 8. This is the response. It's entitled "Response to
the application for strike out" but it is in effect, as I understand it, the additional
submissions and/or evidence adduced by the second defendant in response to the
adjournment that was given for him to produce the same. You'll see that, rather than
produce any evidence that there wasn't a surrender, he simply says at paragraph 8:
"Jennifer St John Webster handing over the keys on 31 July 2018 was
neither a surrender of the lease or a right to enfranchisement under the long
lease. The second defendant had not vacated the property and the claimants
knew and were made aware [and so
goes on]."
Sir, in my submission, that does two things. It supports the fact that the keys were handed
over, so it seems to me an admission that the keys were handed over so it's not therefore
proper, if it be the case, for the second defendant to now deny that the keys were handed
4
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 197 of 380
