and granting possession forthwith, on the basis that the defence disclosed no reasonable grounds for defending
the claim.
3. The order under appeal was made following a judgment given at the end of a second hearing of this application,
lasting half a day. The first hearing was on 10 October 2019, but was adjourned to the second by the judge in
order to allow the appellant time to adduce any evidence he wished in respect of the respondents' assertion that
the lease had been surrendered on 31 July 2018. Both sides were represented by counsel, and the matter was fully
argued, including full skeleton arguments.
4. A number of basic facts are not disputed. On 6 March 1995 Prudence Neil granted a lease of the property at an
annual rent of £5200 (subject to review) to Edward and Patricia Marrow for 35 years from 29 September 1994.
The lease contained a provision that the landlord should be entitled to give one month's written notice to terminate
the lease after the death of the survivor of Mr and Mrs Marrow.
5. Mr Marrow died in 1997 and the lease accordingly vested in his widow Patricia by survivorship. She eventually
suffered from Alzheimer's disease, and died on 25 December 2017. She had been cared for at the property for
some years before her death by her daughter Jennifer St John Webster (the mother of the appellant, and since 2006
a widow herself). For convenience, but without intending any disrespect, I shall refer to her hereafter as “Jennifer”.
6. By her will dated 18 October 2006 the testatrix appointed her three daughters Jennifer, Miranda Maby and
Priscilla Keyser as her executrices, and gave the residue of her estate (which would include the lease of the
property) to her three daughters equally (but with a substitutionary gift in favour of the children of a predeceasing
in child). It appears that Miranda predeceased the testatrix. At that time, no grant of probate had so far been taken
out. I do not know if the position has changed since, but for present purposes it does not matter.
7. On 1 April 2018, the respondents' solicitors, acting on their behalf, gave to Jennifer and the appellant a written
notice to quit and deliver up possession of the property “on the day on which a complete period of your tenancy
expires next after the end of four weeks from the service of this notice”. Whether that form of notice (suitable for
a periodic tenancy) was apt to determine the lease granted in 1995 is not the issue which arises here, but it is part
of the context in which further events occurred, as set out below.
8. On 3 July 2018 Jennifer sent an email to the respondents' agents telling them that she would be moving out of
the property at the end of July, to go and live permanently with her daughter in Bath, and that her sister Priscilla
would be coming down from Scotland to help her move out. The email also pointed out that the appellant (who
stayed there from time to time) had been told to move his things out of the property by the same date. On 31 July
2018 Jennifer handed over the keys to the property to the respondents' agents and signed their final inspection
form confirming that she had given them all the keys to the property.
9. The appellant however declined to vacate the property. On 10 August 2018, the respondents issued a claim for
possession against “persons unknown,” using forms N5 (claim form) and N121 (particulars of claim), under claim
number E00YE247. The appellant made a witness statement dated 19 August 2018, as he put it, to “supplement
and explain the Defence Form and a counter claim”.
10. On 29 August 2018 the appellant served notice on the respondents claiming to enfranchise the property under
the Leasehold Reform Act 1967. That notice stated that he was the tenant. However, in his defence in the present
proceedings, the appellant claimed to have served the notice “acting on behalf of and with the authority of the
executors".
11. By 27 December 2018, the possession claim had been amended to show the appellant as first defendant and
Jennifer as second defendant. On that date, however, the claim was “adjourned generally with liberty to either
party to apply to restore” by Deputy District Judge Collins. The order recited the parties' agreement to adjourn
"to allow the Defendants the opportunity to investigate and apply for the enfranchisement of the Property”.
12. However, the order went on to provide that, if no application to restore had been made by 6 June 2019, the
claim should stand automatically dismissed without further order. Since no application to restore was made by
that date, the claim was indeed dismissed.
13. In the interim, on 23 April 2019, further notices to quit were sent by post behalf of the respondents. These
were expressly stated to be given pursuant to the provision in the lease for giving notice after the death of the
survivor of the original tenants, and to expire on 1 June 2019.
14. A second claim for possession was issued a few days later, on 11 June 2019, under number F00YE161. This
is the present claim, out of which this appeal arises. This claim also was originally brought against “persons
Page 253 of 380
unknown,” and again using forms N5 and N121. The appellant was added as a second defendant to the claim by
order of District Judge Walsh on 23 July 2019. Jennifer has never been a party to these proceedings, and the order
under appeal does not mention her, expressly or impliedly.
15. The judge below considered the evidence put forward on both sides in relation to the question whether
Jennifer had surrendered the lease to the respondents by removing her own and the testatrix's possessions from the
property, handing back the keys to the respondents' agents, signing the form and informing them of her intention
to live elsewhere.
16. Since he was dealing with an application to strike out the defence on the basis that it had no reasonable prospect
or no reasonable grounds for succeeding, the judge treated the case as if the appellant would succeed in proving
all the facts he alleged, namely that the named executrix in occupation ostensibly delivered up the keys to the
landlord's agents, communicating that she was moving out and hoping that her son would do the same, but also
that he probably retained a set of keys and possessions at the property.
17. On this basis the judge held that, on an objective construction of Jennifer's acts, she had unequivocally
intended to end the lease and had indeed surrendered it. The fact that the appellant (who was not a tenant) had
left possessions at the property and retained keys to it did not prevent a surrender from taking place. The judge
held that that was sufficient to dispose of the application in favour of the respondents.
18. But the respondents had a second point, which was that, even if the lease had not been surrendered, no valid
notice to enfranchise had been served by a party with standing to do so. The appellant disagreed, and relied on
two documents, both postdating the notice served by the appellant, to demonstrate that he had the authority of his
mother as executrix to serve the notice to enfranchise on behalf of his grandmother's estate. The judge held that
neither conferred authority on the appellant to serve the notice in August 2018, and that on the true construction
of the documents the claim to enfranchise was being made by the appellant personally, and not on behalf of his
mother.
19. However, there was a further point. The appellant argued through counsel that the proceedings were an abuse
of process. He said that the enfranchisement claim was effectively adjudicated on by the order of Deputy District
Judge Collins in the previous proceedings between the parties under claim number E00YE247. The judge below
held that it was not so, and that the deputy district judge had not been adjudicating upon the claim to enfranchise.
20. In addition, the judge also held that the lease in question was not capable of enfranchisement by anyone,
because it was not a “long lease" as defined by the Act. Section 3(1) contained an exception for leases for
a term exceeding 21 years but terminable by notice after the death (as in this case), where certain conditions
were satisfied. The judge held that those conditions were satisfied, and accordingly the lease was not capable
of enfranchisement. Accordingly, the judge held that the defence should be struck out and judgment given for
possession of the property.
21. The appellant advances nine grounds of appeal, signed by himself, rather than by his counsel. I infer from this
that that he drafted them personally. These are as follows.
"1. The learned judge erred in making an order in relation to Jennifer St John Webster who was not joined as a
party to the proceedings notwithstanding the assertion that she had surrendered the tenancy;
2. The court erred in failing to give Jennifer St John Webster the right to engage in the litigation given that an
adverse order has now been made against her;
3. In all of the circumstances the order of 16 January 2020 was contrary to Jennifer St John's [sic] right to a fair
trial/hearing.
4. The learned judge was wrong to adjudicate on the question of surrender of the lease as follows.
4.1. The question had to be considered objectively by the learned judge;
4.2. The issue required the learned judge to give Jennifer St John Webster an opportunity to make representations
to the court but the learned judge failed to do so;
5. The learned judge failed to take into account that the purported surrender did not concern any agreement
between the parties, that there was no express agreement, in which case it must be by deed, and could not have
taken place by operation of law.
6. The learned judge failed to consider the doctrine of surrender by operation of law appropriately or at all in
that notwithstanding that there must be an act on the tenants part which is inconsistent with continuance of the
Page 254 of 380
tenancy and on acceptance by the landlord that the tenancy has come to an end, there was no act(s) of both tenant
and landlord that could have been said to have been unequivocal.
7. The learned judge in any event took into account the intentions of Jennifer St John Webster, which is an
irrelevant factor. The learned judge failed to analyse parties intentions objectively and consider whether a
surrender should be implied from those acts. Further it is submitted that without Jennifer St John Webster being
joined to the proceedings this consideration could not have taken place by the learned judge.
8. The learned judge failed to consider appropriately or at all the extent to which or effect of whether Rupert
St John Webster was entitled to succeed to the tenancy. Accordingly, the learned judge failed to consider
appropriately or at all whether the Second Defendant Appellant was entitled to apply to enfranchise the tenancy
in the circumstances of him having served a notice within two years of the death of his grandmother.
9. The learned [sic] was wrong to conclude that the tenancy was not a long lease as follows.
9.1. The claimant/respondent failed to produce the original lease or any copy thereof or any evidence in relation
to the terms of that lease. The learned judge was wrong to construe the lease in the absence of any evidence;
9.2. In any event the learned judge was wrong in concluding that this was not a long lease because the original
lease commenced on 15 May 1948 and therefore as defined is a lease capable of enfranchisement."
22. The appellant has supported his grounds of appeal by means of a detailed skeleton argument, dated 1 March
2020, running to 11 typed A4 pages, which I have read. However, the appellant needs permission to appeal in order
to take these grounds of appeal forward. The judge himself did not give permission to appeal. There is no mention
of a refusal in his order, so perhaps he was not asked. At all events, the appellant seeks such permission from me.
23. Under the Civil Procedure Rules, rule 52.6, the court (whether the lower or the appellate) may not grant
permission for a first appeal unless either there is a real prospect of a successful appeal or there is some other
compelling reason why an appeal should be heard. The phrase 'real prospect' does not require a probability of
success, but merely means that the prospect of success is 'not unreal': Tanfern v Cameron-MacDonald [2001]
1 WLR 1311, [21], CA. If the application passes that threshold test, however, the court is not obliged to give
permission to appeal; instead it has a discretion to exercise.
24. I must therefore consider, and will deal with, each ground of appeal in turn. The first ground asserts that the
judge wrongly made an order in relation to Jennifer. This is incorrect. Jennifer was not a party to these proceedings,
so that no possession order could have been made against her, and none was. This ground accordingly has no
prospect of success.
25. The second ground also asserts that an order has been made against Jennifer, and says the court failed to give
her the right to engage in the litigation. The premise is wrong, as I have pointed out above. But in any event
the respondents did not sue Jennifer for possession (or anything else) in the present claim. It is a matter for the
claimants in a claim as to whom they wish to sue: see eg Dollfus Mieg v Bank of England [1951] Ch 33. This
ground has no prospect of success, either.
26. The third ground asserts that the order was contrary to Jennifer's right to a fair trial/hearing. Since she was
never a party, and no order has been made against her, this is simply nonsense. It has no prospect of success.
27. The fourth ground deals with the judge's decision on the question of surrender of the lease. It is in two parts.
The first part is that on an objective view of the evidence the conditions for a surrender were not met, because
the rent continue to be tendered and the landlord failed to take possession. In substance it is a complaint that the
judge reached the wrong conclusion on the evidence. But a finding of fact (here, whether the evidence points
unequivocally to the termination of the lease) is a matter for the appreciation of the judge in taking account of
all the evidence tendered. An appellant court will not interfere unless it is satisfied that the finding of the court
below was plainly wrong: McGraddie v McGraddie [2013] 1 WLR 2477, SC.
28. Moreover, a judge is presumed to have taken all the evidence tendered into consideration even if he or she
does not mention all of it in the decision: McGraddie v McGraddie [2013] 1 WLR 2477, [27], SC. And it makes
no difference whether the evidence tendered was oral or written, or whether it involved an element of evaluation
or appreciation: R(Z) v Hackney LBC [2020] 1 WLR 4327, [56], SC.
29. In my judgment, there was evidence before the court below entitling the judge to conclude that the conduct
of the parties pointed unequivocally to the termination of the lease. Whether another judge (including one in the
appellate court) would reach the same conclusion is irrelevant. There is no prospect of success on this part of
this ground.
Page 255 of 380
30. The second part of this ground asserts that the court was required to give Jennifer an opportunity to make
representations to the court, but failed to do so. In substance, this repeats the first three grounds, which have
already been dealt with. In circumstances where Jennifer was not a party, and no order was made against her,
there could be no requirement that the court afford her an opportunity to make representations. This part of this
ground is equally without any prospect of success.
31. The fifth ground argues that no surrender could have taken place because there was no express agreement,
no deed, and no surrender by operation of law. However, as I have already said, on the evidence the judge was
entitled to and did reach the conclusion that the conduct of the parties pointed unequivocally to the termination
of the lease, such that it would be inequitable for them to rely on the absence of a deed. In doing so, he applied
the law as agreed by counsel for the parties. There is no prospect of a successful appeal on this ground.
32. The sixth ground asserts that the judge failed to consider the doctrine of surrender by operation of law
appropriately or at all. This duplicates the fifth ground, which has been dealt with above. In his skeleton argument
the appellant seeks to make a number of further evidential points, as if he was entitled to a rerun of the trial. He is
not. If these points were made to the judge below, then the judge had them in mind. If they were not made to the
judge below then they cannot be taken into account now. Either way there is no prospect of success on this ground.
33. The seventh ground complains that the judge took into account the subjective intentions of Jennifer, and says
that these are “irrelevant”. I assume that the appellant takes the notion of irrelevancy from the quotation from
Megarry and Wade's Law of Real Property, 9th edition [17-086], set out in paragraph 17 of the transcript of the
judgment. This reads, in part:
"Although the conduct of the parties must point unequivocally to the termination of the tenancy, their subjective
intentions are irrelevant”.
34. Having read the transcript of the judgment below, I am not at all sure that the judge did in fact take into
account Jennifer's subjective intentions. But in any event I am satisfied that the appellant has misunderstood the
quotation. The doctrine of surrender by operation of law is an aspect of the law of estoppel, which requires the
court to focus on what a person's words or conduct would appear to convey to a reasonable person hearing or
observing them, rather than on their subjective intentions, if they are different.
35. As I have already said, after receiving a notice to quit, Jennifer had emailed the landlord's agents on 3 July
2018 to say she would vacate the property and leave it at the end of the month. This, combined with the acts of
removing her own and her late mother's possessions, of handing over the keys and signing the relevant form, was
held by the judge to be such as would have conveyed to a reasonable person that she intended to terminate the
lease. When the textbook says that her subjective intentions are irrelevant, all it means is that, even if she did not
herself intend to terminate the lease, her objectively construed actions govern the effect of what she said and did.
And the judge concluded as he did.
36. The seventh ground also complains that the judge failed to analyse the parties' actions objectively and consider
whether surrender should be implied from those acts, and that the judge was unable to carry this out without
Jennifer being joined to the proceedings. But it is abundantly clear from the transcript of the judgment that the
objective analysis is exactly what the judge carried out. The fact that Jennifer was not a party to the proceedings
is irrelevant, because the respondents were not claiming, and have not obtained, any order against her.
37. The eighth ground is that the judge failed to consider whether and how far the appellant was entitled to succeed
to the lease. It appears from the written skeleton argument prepared by the appellant and dated 14 January 2020
that he raised the question whether his exclusive possession of the property and payment of rents entitled him to
succeed to the lease or created a separate tenancy.
38. So far as I can see from the court files (both for the case below and for the appeal), and from the bundle of
documents submitted by the appellant in support of his appeal, there is no evidence supporting a claim to his
exclusive possession of the property and payment of any rent by him to the respondents. Indeed, his own defence
in this claim dated 27 July 2019 (settled by counsel, instructed by solicitors, and supported by a statement of truth
signed by the appellant) asserts that Jennifer is the tenant of the property and that the appellant also occupied it,
but with her permission. In addition, it makes no claim that he paid any rent.
39. So far as I can see from the transcript of the judgment, this further argument appears not to have been pressed
by the appellant's counsel at the oral hearing, because it is not referred to at all in the judgment. This may have
Page 256 of 380
been because, as pointed out above, there seems to have been no evidence to support it. At all events, in my
judgment there is no real prospect of this ground succeeding on appeal, at least so far as relates to the appellant.
40. However, the skeleton argument refers to section 6A of the 1967 Act, concerning the rights of personal
representatives of a deceased tenant to claim enfranchisement. The problem for the appellant is that he was not
such a personal representative (even though at the hearing his counsel argued that he was), and the judge held
that in serving the notice to enfranchise he was acting on his own behalf and not that of his mother. None of the
grounds of appeal seeks to overturn this decision. But, even if any of them did, the judge also decided that there
was a surrender of the lease by operation of law before any enfranchisement notice was served, and I have held
that an appeal against that decision has no prospect of success.
41. Lastly under this ground, the appellant argues that the tenancy created by the lease was protected by the Rent
Act 1977, and that he was entitled to succeed to it under Schedule 1 paragraph 6 of that Act. In turn, he says
that that engaged CPR rule 24.3, which prevents the court awarding summary judgment against the tenant of a
protected tenancy holding over after the end of the tenancy.
42. None of this appears to have been argued before the judge. It is not mentioned in the skeleton argument, and
the judge does not deal with it. But, in relation to the succession question, the same problem arises for the appellant
as I have already mentioned. The judge decided that there was a surrender of the lease by operation of law before
any enfranchisement notice was served, and I have held that an appeal against that decision has no prospect of
success. Hence it cannot matter whether there was a protected tenancy or not. The tenancy was surrendered, and
no longer in existence at the date of the notice to enfranchise. Hence, there was nothing to succeed to.
43. As for the argument based on CPR rule 24.3, that rule prevents summary judgment. It does not prevent the
striking out of a statement of case (here the defence) on the basis that it cannot succeed. And once that is done
(as it was here), the court is able to award judgment in default of defence. That is not summary judgment, which
involves an appreciation of the merits (or, rather, lack of merits) of the party's case. Accordingly, this ground of
appeal has no prospect of success either.
44. The ninth ground of appeal is that the judge should not have concluded that the tenancy was not a "long lease"
for the purposes of enfranchisement. The argument is that the the lease granted in 1995 followed an earlier lease
granted on 15 May 1948 and was in the same terms. Hence, by virtue of section 1B of the 1967 Act, the proviso
to section 3(1) dealing with leases terminable by notice after the death does not have the same excepting effect
that it does for leases granted on or after 18 April 1980.
45. The appellant submits that the judge was wrong to conclude that, because the earlier lease was not available
to the court, it could not be shown what the terms of that these were, and that therefore it could not be shown that
the 1948 lease was a “long lease” within the meaning of the 1967 Act, and therefore capable of enfranchisement.
However, the burden of showing that the lease was capable of enfranchisement lay on the appellant, for the
appellant put that forward as a reason for not striking out the defence. Since the appellant did not show that, the
judge was entitled to conclude as he did.
46. Even if that were wrong, however, and as I have already said, the judge decided that there was a surrender of
the lease by operation of law before any enfranchisement notice was served, and I have held that an appeal against
that decision has no prospect of success. Hence it cannot matter whether the lease was capable of enfranchisement
or not. As a result, this ground of appeal cannot result in a reversal of the judge's decision on this point.
47. I should also mention that, in separate proceedings in the High Court in Bristol, Penley and Ashcroft v Webster,
B30BS071, there is an application pending to amend the order of HHJ McCahill QC dated 23 March 2015, by
removing clause 3(c). This provision prohibits the appellant from making certain public statements in relation to
his claimed rights in relation to a quite different property known as The Priory, Ash Priors, where he used to live,
except in relation to certain listed legal proceedings (of which the present is not one).
48. The appellant has just written to the court, by letter dated 8 January 2020 (but evidently meaning 2021), to
say that
"It is [his] opinion that full legal argument in [the present] proceedings F00YE161 also requires removal of clause
3 (c) of HHJ McCahill's 23 March 2015 order, otherwise there cannot be a fair hearing.”
49. I will deal with that application in due course; it is listed for hearing on 22 January 2021. In the context of
the present matter I will simply say that I cannot see how full legal argument in the present case is inhibited by
Page 257 of 380
the prohibition in clause 3(c) of the order of 23 March 2015. The property the subject of that order is completely
different from the property the subject of this.
50. Moreover, as far as it goes, the appellant's argument in the present case appears to depend on the appellant
and his mother Jennifer having no interest in the other property. In other words, far from asserting an interest in
the other property, these proceedings assert none. Ground 2 appears to rest on the proposition that Jennifer “is not
entitled to any equity or interest in Captain Webster's farm or residential properties” (ie the property the subject
of the order of 23 March 2015. That is indeed what the other proceedings decide.
51. Accordingly, none of the grounds advanced by the appellant has any, or any real, prospect of success. Turning
to the other limb of the rule, and having read all the papers, in my judgment there is nothing here that suggests
that there may be any other compelling reason for having an appeal in this matter. This appeal therefore does not
pass either limb of the the threshold test set out in CPR rule 52.6.
52. Accordingly I must dismiss the application for permission to appeal. I add only that, even if on the the material
before me the appellant had somehow passed that threshold, as a matter of discretion I would not have thought it
right to grant permission to appeal. On that material, any such appeal would appear to have very weak merits, and,
in light of the appellant's many and fruitless attempts to claim an interest in other property, and his habit of taking
every point, however unmeritorious, would not justify taking up a further share of limited judicial resources.
53. There is one final point. This arises from CPR rule 52.4(3), (4). This provides that:
"(3) Where in the appeal court a judge of the High Court, a Designated Civil Judge or a Specialist Circuit Judge
refuses permission to appeal without an oral hearing and considers that the application is totally without merit,
the judge may make an order that the person seeking permission may not request the decision to be reconsidered
at an oral hearing.
(4) For the purposes of paragraph (3), ‘Specialist Circuit Judge' means any Circuit Judge in the County Court
nominated to hear cases in the Circuit Commercial, Chancery or Technology and Construction Court lists."
54. I am a circuit judge sitting in the County Court, nominated to hear cases in the Circuit Commercial and
Chancery lists. In dealing with this application for permission to appeal, I am of opinion that it has been totally
without merit, in that it was doomed to fail from the outset. Accordingly, under rule 52.4(3) I may make an
order that appellant may not request the decision to be reconsidered at an oral hearing. In my judgment, for the
reasons already given, it is appropriate for me to do so here. The appellant therefore may not request an oral
reconsideration of my decision, which is final.
Dated 12 January 2021
Page 258 of 380
Case No: CH-2020-000194
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
Neutral Citation Number: [2021] EWHC 3371 (Ch)
The Rolls Building
7 Rolls Buildings
Fetter Lane
London EC4A 1NL
Wednesday, 10 February 2021
BEFORE:
MR JUSTICE MORGAN
BETWEEN:
MR RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
- and -
(1) MR JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY
(2) MRS ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT
MR WEBSTER appeared in person
The Respondents did not attend and were not represented
JUDGMENT
(Extended Civil Restraint Order
(Approved Judgment)
Appellant
Respondents
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol, BS32 4NE
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/ Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance with
relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the case
concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the applicable
information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the internet, including
social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making sure that applicable
restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment.
For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask at the court office or take legal
advice.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 259 of 380
1.
2.
3.
4.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: I have given judgment dismissing an application by
Mr Webster for an extension of time in an appeal he had intended to bring against an
order made on 4 August 2014. I explained my reasons and I concluded by reaching the
view that the application had been totally without merit.
Under CPR 23.12, having reached that conclusion, I am required to record that fact in
an order of the court. Further, under the same rule I am required to consider whether it
is appropriate to make a civil restraint order.
At the hearing of the application for an extension of time, the respondents to the appeal
were not present and were not represented, but the court received a letter dated
8 February 2021 from solicitors, Clarke Willmott, acting for the respondents. In the
letter the solicitors referred to rule 23.12 and invited the court to consider, as the rule
expressly requires, whether it is appropriate to make a civil restraint order.
The subject of civil restraint orders is dealt with in Practice Direction 3C of the Civil
Procedure Rules. Paragraph 2 of that Practice Direction deals with limited civil
restraint orders and paragraph 3 deals with extended civil restraint orders. A court can
make a limited civil restraint order where a party has made two or more applications
which are totally without merit. A court can make an extended civil restraint order
where a party has persistently issued claims or made applications which are totally
without merit.
5.
The position in this case requires me to note the facts and matters set out in the
judgment given by Judge Matthews on 21 April 2017 when he referred to the extended
civil restraint order made by Judge McCahill on 23 March 2015 and which
Judge Matthews himself extended. The extended order continued in force until
22 March 2019.
6.
After 22 March 2019 Mr Webster has made further applications. The one I know most
about is the one he has made to me, which I have dismissed today, certifying it was
totally without merit.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 260 of 380
7.
8.
9.
10.
There are two other recent orders where the judge has certified Mr Webster's
application was totally without merit. The first order was dated 12 January 2021 where
Judge Matthews, sitting in the County Court at Yeovil, certified that an application for
permission to appeal was totally without merit. The second certificate was given by the
same judge sitting in the High Court at Bristol on 22 January 2021, and today there is a
third certificate that an application was totally without merit.
This means that within paragraph 2 of Practice Direction 3C, Mr Webster has made
two or more applications which are totally without merit. I also find within paragraph
3 of Practice Direction 3C that he has persistently issued claims and made applications
which are totally without merit. I can therefore make no civil restraint order, or a
limited or an extended one.
For the reasons which were given by Judge Matthews in paragraphs 52 and 53 of his
judgment of 21 April 2017, this case calls out for a civil restraint order. There is today
a clear and serious risk to the other parties to this dispute and to the administration of
justice, that Mr Webster will continue to make time-consuming and potentially costly
applications which wastes the time of the court and would waste the time of the other
parties to the dispute. Something needs to be done.
A limited civil restraint order will not be adequate because it is confined to the
proceedings in which the order is made. I am making this order in the appeal. That
appeal will now come to an end and it may be that applications will not be made in the
appeal but in other proceedings. Therefore, the case merits an extended civil restraint
order.
11.
As to the period of an extended civil restraint order, I conclude that it ought to be for
a period of two years; that is the maximum period for which the order may be made.
That period is, in my judgment, fully justified. Mr Webster has been in dispute with
the other parties to this dispute for many, many years. He has not made progress in
relation to the claims he has made. He has persistently failed to take no for an answer.
He is likely to continue in that attitude unless he is restrained by order of the court.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 261 of 380
12. Accordingly, I will, effective as of today, make an extended civil restraint order for a
13.
period of two years against Mr Webster.
The judge who will be supervising this extended civil restraint order will be nominated
by the Chancellor of the High Court. It is not a matter for me to specify which judge
shall be the supervising judge. But that is the order I will make.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 262 of 380
Epiq Europe Ltd hereby certify that the above is an accurate and complete record of the
proceedings or part thereof.
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
This transcript has been approved by the Judge
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 263 of 380
Case No: CH-2020-000194
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
Neutral Citation Number: [2021] EWHC 1839 (Ch)
The Rolls Building
7 Rolls Buildings
Fetter Lane
London EC4A 1NL
Wednesday, 10 February 2021
BEFORE:
MR JUSTICE MORGAN
BETWEEN:
MR RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
Appellant
- and -
(1) MR JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY
(2) MRS ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT
MR WEBSTER appeared in person
The Respondents did not attend and were not represented
JUDGMENT
(Approved)
Respondents
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol, BS32 4NE
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/ Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance with
relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the case
concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the applicable
information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the internet, including
social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making sure that applicable
restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment.
For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask at the court office or take legal
advice.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 264 of 380
1.
MR JUSTICE MORGAN: The application before me is an application in an appeal
where the appellant is Mr Rupert St John Webster and the respondents are
Mr John Francis Penley and Mrs Alison Virginia Ashcroft. The appellant's notice was
sealed as issued on 5 August 2020. The order against which the appeal is brought is an
order made by a deputy master in the Chancery Division. It was
Deputy Master Matthews, who later became Judge Matthews, and who has dealt with
other aspects of the wider litigation in the background to this matter, sitting in the High
Court at Bristol.
2.
The order against which the appeal is to be brought was dated 4 August 2014. That
shows that the appellant's notice was issued about six years after the order which is
being challenged. Mr Webster, in his appellant's notice, recognised that he was
seriously out of time to appeal the order because the time for appealing was 21 days
from 4 August 2014. For that reason, in section 10 of his appellant's notice,
Mr Webster applied for an extension of time for filing his appellant's notice. Section
10 of the appellant's notice contains these words: "You must set out in section 11 the
reasons for the delay and what steps you have taken since the decision you are
appealing." Mr Webster filled in section 11 headed 'evidence in support' and the
opening words of section 11 said: "I wish to rely upon the following reasons and
evidence." Section 11 was then filled in by Mr Webster and I will read the entirety of
what is there said. He wrote:
"The master's decision to cancel a land charge did not evict the
family. The costs of the decision were, or were thought to be,
secured. It was not a necessity to bring any application for
permission to appeal within a prescribed 21 days. Though, after all
the events set out in the grounds of appeal involving possible
domestic violence orders, and alongside petition for divorce, with
family and children court proceedings, new civil claims,
counterclaims, civil restraint orders, further civil claims, statutory
demands and a petition for bankruptcy, all unnecessary,
undesirable and the cause of unconscionable distress and
inconvenience and demanding time to address, concurrent to
running a small business and bringing up three young children, this
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 265 of 380
application is brought before any limitation period as set out in the
Limitation Act 1980."
That is the end of the text in section 11.
3.
4.
The matter was dealt with by Johnson J on 3 November 2020. He ordered that the
application made in section 10 of the appellant's notice to extend time for the filing of
the appellant's notice be dismissed. The judge gave reasons for his conclusion. He
described the procedural background to the decision he had to make whether to extend
time for appealing. Having done so, he then said the following:
"The appellant's grounds in this case are set out in section 11 of the
appellant's notice, but in my judgment they do not provide a
sufficient explanation for such a long period of delay. The gist of
the explanation seems to be that the appellant was caught up in
other litigation matters, which caused distress and inconvenience,
concurrent to running a small business and bringing up three
children. No doubt such matters were time consuming and difficult
to manage, but in my view they do not provide sufficient
justification for the delay in this case. There is an obvious interest
in promoting finality in litigation and, absent clear reasons, it
seems to me it would be wrong to allow an order made so long ago
now to be challenged on appeal."
Mr Webster has, pursuant to the permission contained in Johnson J's order, applied to
set aside that order and that application is the one which has come before me. At the
outset of the hearing Mr Webster applied to me to adjourn this application for an
extension of time because he wished to put forward another appeal to the
Court of Appeal, and that appeal would relate to an application which was dismissed in
the High Court sitting at Bristol by Judge Matthews on 22 January 2021. That
application by Mr Webster was to vary an order made by Judge McCahill QC of
23 March 2015. I have been shown a copy of that order and I have been taken to the
relevant paragraph, which is paragraph 5(3)(c) of the order, so I understand what the
application to vary the order concerned.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 266 of 380
5.
6.
7.
8.
Judge Matthews dismissed the application to vary the order. He ordered Mr Webster to
pay Mrs Ashcroft's costs of the application, which were summarily assessed in the sum
of £8,100 inclusive of VAT. Judge Matthews recorded in his order of 22 January 2021
that Mr Webster's application was totally without merit and accordingly the court
considered, but declined, to make a civil restraint order against Mr Webster.
Mr Webster has said to me that he wishes to appeal the order of 22 January 2021; that,
if he succeeds in appealing that order, he will then be free to refer to something said by
Judge McCahill in his order 23 March 2015 and he wants to refer to that on the hearing
of today's application before me, so he says that today's application has to be put off
until the way is cleared for him to refer to relevant matters. I have looked at the order
made by Judge McCahill on 23 March 2015. I understand the point which Mr Webster
says might be material. I reach the conclusion that I do not need to await any ruling of
the Court of Appeal on this matter before I can deal fairly and fully with the application
for the extension of time which is before me, so I will not adjourn the application for an
extension of time, but I will proceed to deal with it.
I need to refer to certain other matters before I address the application for an extension
of time. The first matter is to refer to the order which is under appeal in the current
appeal. It was an order made on 4 August 2014. The order was made on the
application of Mrs Ashcroft and Mr Penley. The order recited that the application was
a plain case, suitable to be dealt with by a master. That comment was made because
the master directed himself that he ought only to make the order sought in a plain case
and he was satisfied that the application was a plain case. The order then recited that
Mr Webster appeared in person and Mrs Ashcroft and Mr Penley appeared by counsel.
The order then, in three paragraphs, directed the vacation of certain charges which had
been registered against a property, the property being known as the Priory, Ash Priors,
Taunton, Somerset.
The first entry which was vacated had been made in the register of pending actions on
6 March 2012. The second entry which has been vacated had been made in the register
of pending actions on 3 September 2013. The third entry which was vacated, and is the
one which, as I understand it, Mr Webster is more concerned about today, was a
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 267 of 380
