ROYA
COURTS
OFUSTICE
Neutral Citation Number: [2019] EWHC 2174 (Ch)
Case No: D30YE032
Appeal No: 8BS0149C
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
BUSINESS AND PROPERTY COURTS IN BRISTOL
INSOLVENCY AND COMPANIES LIST (ChD)
ON APPEAL FROM THE COUNTY COURT AT YEOVIL
(District Judge Corrigan)
Bristol Civil Justice Centre
2 Redcliff Street, Bristol, BS1 6GR
Before:
HHJ PAUL MATTHEWS
(sitting as a Judge of the High Court)
Between:
Date: 08/08/2019
Rupert Jolyon Richard St John Webster
Appellant
- and -
Alison Virginia Ashcroft
Respondent
Robert Trevis (instructed by direct access) for the Appellant
Oliver Wooding (instructed by Clarke Willmott LLP) for the Respondent
Hearing dates: 1 August 2019
Approved Judgment
I direct that pursuant to CPR PD 39A para 6.1 no official shorthand note shall be taken of this
Judgment and that copies of this version as handed down may be treated as authentic.
Page 168 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Ashcroft, 8BS0149C
HHJ Paul Matthews:
Introduction
1.
2.
This is my judgment on an appeal brought by the appellant against the decision of
District Judge Corrigan, sitting in the County Court at Yeovil, on 13 November 2018
in relation to the costs of a bankruptcy petition presented against him by the
respondent. On that day, the petition itself was dismissed, the appellant having paid
the statutory demand debt in full since the date of the previous hearing. In the exercise
of his discretion, the district judge ordered the appellant to pay the costs of the
petitioning creditor, and refused to order her to pay his costs. (I note in passing that
District Judge Corrigan in fact has now just retired from the bench.)
After the appellant lodged an appellant's notice in the County Court at Yeovil, the
matter was transferred to the Bristol District Registry of the High Court, Chancery
Division. Under CPR PD 52A, para 3.5 and Table 2, an appeal from a district judge in
the County Court in a personal insolvency matter lies to the High Court. Under the
Insolvency Practice Direction of 25 April 2018, amended 10 July 2018, paras 17.2(4)
and 1.1(8), (9), a judge authorised under s 9(1) of the Senior Courts Act 1981, such as
I am, may deal with such an appeal.
Procedural background
3.
4.
5.
The appeal arises out of long-running litigation between the appellant and the
respondent, in which two costs orders, dated 20 December 2011 and 4 August 2014,
were made against the appellant in favour of the respondent. The respondent served a
statutory demand dated 14 February 2017 on the appellant on 1 March 2017. The
appellant applied to the County Court at Taunton on 17 March 2017 for an order that
the statutory demand be set aside. That application was transferred to the Bristol
District Registry of the High Court on 12 April 2017
However, in 2015 an extended civil restraint order had been made against the
appellant, with a duration of two years. On 26 April 2017, I extended that order
against the appellant for a further two years. When the appellant issued his application
at Taunton on 17 March 2017, he did not first apply for permission to do so under the
extended civil restraint order. He first applied for such permission by email dated 17
July 2017, and by application notice in form N244 on 21 July 2017. On 29 August
2017, whilst I was on annual leave, HHJ Cotter QC ordered that the appellant's
application be placed before me, as I am the judge designated under the extended civil
restraint order as amended and extended in April 2017. In the meantime, however, on
7 August 2017 the respondent had already presented a bankruptcy petition in the
County Court at Taunton against the appellant, based on the statutory demand served
on 1 March 2017.
On 14 September 2017, on my return from annual leave, I dealt with the appellant's
application dated 21 July 2017 on the papers, and gave permission to the appellant
under the extended civil restraint order to apply to set aside the statutory demand. In
my reasons for doing so, I said that there was a question whether the appellant needed
permission at all under the civil restraint order before applying to the court to set aside
a statutory demand. But I also said that I did not need to decide this question because I
was satisfied that, even if the application were caught by the civil restraint order, it
2
Page 169 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Ashcroft, 8BS0149C
6.
would be appropriate in this case to give permission to the appellant to make it. I will
return to this later.
In the light of my order of 14 September 2017, on 30 October 2017 District Judge
Corrigan formally adjourned the petition. On 9 March 2018 District Judge Cope,
sitting in the Bristol District Registry, heard and dismissed the appellant's application.
On 13 November 2018 District Judge Corrigan heard the adjourned bankruptcy
petition in the County Court at Yeovil. By that date, however, the appellant had paid
the outstanding statutory demand debt, and so the judge dismissed the petition.
However, as I have already said, taking into account the fact that the debt had been
paid by the appellant only after the petition had been presented, he ordered the
appellant to pay the respondent's costs of the petition and refused to order the
respondent to pay the appellant's costs.
Grounds of appeal
7.
8.
9.
The appellant's grounds of appeal attached to his appellant's notice were originally
prepared by him when acting in person. On 21 March 2019 I refused permission to
appeal on the papers, for reasons given at the time in writing. The appellant renewed
his application for permission at a hearing on 5 June 2019, at which he was
represented by Robert Trevis of counsel, instructed under the direct access scheme. In
his skeleton argument for that hearing, Mr Trevis redrafted the grounds of appeal.
After hearing Mr Trevis (the respondent not being present or represented at that
hearing) I gave permission to appeal on one ground only, namely
"whether the order of 14 September 2017 giving permission under the ECRO
dated 23 March 2015 (as extended by the orders of 22 March 2017 and 26 April
2017) to apply to set aside the statutory demand dated 14 February 2017 (served
on the appellant on 1 March 2017) retrospectively validated the application made
without permission under the said ECRO by notice dated 17 March 2017 to set
aside the said statutory demand to a date before 7 August 2017, so that at the time
that the petition for the appellant to be adjudicated bankrupt was presented (on 7
August 2017) there was outstanding an application to set aside the statutory
demand within section 267(2)(d) of the Insolvency Act 1986, so that the said
petition could not be validly presented."
I remind myself that CPR rule 52.21(3) provides that the appeal court will allow the
appeal where the decision of the court below was (a) wrong, or (b) unjust because of
serious procedural or other irregularity in the proceedings below. Here 'wrong' means
wrong in law, wrong in fact, or wrong in the exercise of discretion. I record that on
the appeal no challenge was made to any of the facts found by the district judge and
on which he relied. Nor was there any suggestion of any procedural or other
irregularity below, such as to engage paragraph (b) of the rule.
The appeal
10.
At the hearing of this appeal the appellant was again represented by Mr Trevis, and
Mr Oliver Wooding appeared for the respondent. Mr Trevis relied on the skeleton
argument which had been prepared for the application for permission in June, but also
on commentary on s 267 in Muir Hunter on Personal Insolvency and an authority
3
Page 170 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Ashcroft, 8BS0149C
referred to in that commentary, Times Newspapers Ltd v Chohan (Limitation Periods)
[2001] 1 WLR 184. He also made an additional point. This was that the appellant did
not in fact need permission under the ECRO to apply to set aside a statutory demand.
Mr Wooding pointed out that the ground of appeal permitted by my order of 5 June
2019 was predicated on the assumption that the ECRO did apply to require
permission for such an application. But he did not seek to argue that he was not in a
position to make submissions on the point, although, as he said, those submissions
would be less full than they might otherwise have been.
Scope of the ECRO
11.
In arguing the point about the scope of the ECRO, Mr Trevis reminded me that I had
raised the same point myself in my reasons for giving permission on 14 September
2017. On that occasion I said this:
"The first question is whether the defendant needs permission to apply to the
court to set aside a statutory demand. The ECRO provides in section 2 that the
defendant be restrained “from... Making applications in any court specified
below concerning any matter involving or relating to or touching upon or leading
to the proceedings in which this order is made without first obtaining the
permission of" the named judge. The courts specified in the order as amended in
April 2017 included the County Court.
The words of the restraint are very wide indeed. On the face of it an application in
the County Court for an order to set aside a statutory demand in respect of sums
said to be due under orders made either in the same proceedings between the
parties or in earlier proceedings between them covering the same subject matter
falls within the restraint. I note the reference by Lewis J in Society of Lloyd's v
Noel [2015] EWHC 734 (QB), [54], to the perceived need in that case to make an
exception in the restraint for an application to set aside a statutory demand served
by Lloyds on Mrs Noel, and to the earlier decision of Popplewell J in the same
case (not unfortunately available to me) making a similar point. That of course
reinforces the initial impression that such an application would otherwise fall
within the terms of the restraint.
Before I could conclusively determine this question, however, I should need to
give the claimants the opportunity to be heard. But I do not need to do this,
because I am satisfied that, even if the application is caught by the ECRO, it is
appropriate in this case to give permission to the defendant to make it. Whatever
the form of the proceeding, in substance it is a response by the defendant to a
procedure launched against him by the claimants, i.e. to make him bankrupt. Just
as he could obviously defend the petition for his bankruptcy without the need for
permission, so to a person in the position of the defendant should normally be
able to apply to set aside the statutory demand served on him. Otherwise he
would be defending the inevitable bankruptcy petition with one hand tied behind
his back.
I say ‘normally', because, if it were clear that there were no grounds whatever
challenging the demand, then there would be no point in giving permission. But,
looking at the material provided by the defendant, I am not in a position to say
4
Page 171 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Ashcroft, 8BS0149C
that. I emphasise that that does not indicate any view as to the strength of the
points which the defendant wishes to make. Their evaluation is for another day.”
Appellant's submissions
12. Mr Trevis submits that an ECRO ought not to catch an application by an alleged
debtor to set aside a statutory demand, because in essence it is a step taken in
accordance with the rules of court after an alleged creditor has taken the initiative, out
of court, in serving a statutory demand on the alleged debtor. It is therefore wholly
defensive rather than offensive, and it is only the way that the court procedure is
structured that requires that the alleged debtor take the first step in court.
Respondent's submissions
13.
14.
15.
Mr Wooding submits that the ECRO in the present case does catch an application to
set aside a statutory demand. In section 2 of the order the relevant part begins:
"It is ordered that you be restrained from issuing claims or making applications in
any court specified below concerning any matter involving or relating to or
touching upon or leading to the proceedings in which this order is made without
first obtaining the permission of [one of two named judges]".
The courts then specified are the High Court and "any County Court". That section
continues:
"It is further ordered
(1) this order relates to applications or claims by [the appellant] made against the
claimants in their capacity as executors of the estate of Valerie Hilda Margaret
Webster and trustees of (being the freehold owners of) the property known as The
Priory, [address and title number] (“the Property") and their successors in title;
(2) the matters subject to this order exclude any personal claim that [the
appellant] may bring or is advised to bring in professional negligence as a
disappointed beneficiary or otherwise;
(3) for the avoidance of doubt, the matter is subject to this order include any
claim or application in relation to the occupation of, possession of, ownership of,
or access to the Property."
Mr Wooding argues that an application to set aside a statutory demand is a positive
step initiating court proceedings and therefore falls squarely within the wording of the
ECRO, as long as the subject matter is the same. Here he says the statutory demand is
based upon costs orders made in earlier litigation between the parties which led to the
ECRO being imposed in the first place. The point of an ECRO is to act as a filter on
applicants who have made multiple applications that are totally without merit, so as to
allow to go forward only those applications which are proper to be heard. He accepts
that it would normally be appropriate for the court in such a case to give permission to
make such an application as this. He refers to the decision of Lewis J in Society of
Lloyd's v Noel [2015] EWHC 734 (QB), where there was an assumption that the
5
Page 172 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Ashcroft, 8BS0149C
application would have been caught by a civil restraint order but that it would be
appropriate for the court to give permission.
Discussion
16.
Mr Trevis is of course right to say that in substance the alleged debtor in applying to
set aside a statutory demand is responding to an out of court procedure initiated by the
alleged creditor. It is a defensive move. He is also right to say that it only happens like
that because the court rules are so structured. But the whole point about the civil
restraint order regime is to prevent the court system being overwhelmed with
unmeritorious applications made to the court. And I cannot get away from the fact
that, in applying to set aside a statutory demand, an alleged debtor is engaging the
court process for the first time, rather than responding to the engagement of the court
process by someone else. So I am clear that Mr Wooding is right to say that in
principle an ECRO will cover an application to set aside a statutory demand arising
out of the same subject matter. I also think he is right to say that it will normally be
appropriate for the court to give permission for such an application to be made. On the
other hand, if the application is bound to fail, then there will be no point in doing so.
And then the filter system will have served a useful purpose. So I reject the first point
made by Mr Trevis.
Section 267(2)(d)
Appellant's submissions
17.
His next point is that the wording of s 267(2)(d) of the Insolvency Act 1986 is
mandatory. So far as material, it provides:
66
a creditor's petition may be presented to the court in respect of the debt or
debts only if, at the time the petition is presented -
18.
(d) there is no outstanding application to set aside a statutory demand served
in respect of the debt or any of the debts."
In support of his view that the wording is mandatory he refers to the decision of
Anthony Mann QC (as he then was), sitting as a deputy High Court judge, in Times
Newspapers Ltd v Chohan (Limitation Periods) [2001] 1 WLR 184. In that case a
statutory demand had been served on 11 January 2000. No application to set aside
was made within the prescribed time limit. Then, on 18 February 2000, two things
happened. The creditor presented the petition, and the debtor issued an application out
of time for an extension of time in which to apply to set aside the statutory demand. It
was not clear which had happened first: the former was timed, but the latter was not.
It was later found that neither party knew what the other was doing at the time. The
application out of time thereafter came before a deputy registrar, who extended time
for applying to set aside, but in the same order dismissed the application to set aside
itself. Subsequently, another registrar made a bankruptcy order based on the statutory
demand. He held that the extension of time for appealing did not have the effect that
an application to set aside should be treated as outstanding at the time of the petition.
Alternatively, if he were wrong about that, he held that the condition in paragraph (d)
6
Page 173 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Ashcroft, 8BS0149C
19.
20.
20
21.
was an irregularity which could be waived and should be waived in the circumstances.
The bankrupt appealed to the High Court judge against the making of the bankruptcy
order.
The deputy judge agreed with the registrar that there was no breach of the
requirements of paragraph (d). I will come back to that. But he went on to say this:
“25. That conclusion makes it unnecessary for me to consider the registrar's view
that any defect in this respect was one that could be waived. I have to say that I
am not convinced that in this respect the registrar was correct, though I would
agree with him that if this was a waivable defect then this is clearly a case in
which the defect ought to be waived. In the light of my views as to the nature and
effect of paragraph (d), however, it is unnecessary for me to express a view on
this."
Mr Trevis relies on this as showing that failure to comply with paragraph (d) cannot
be waived. With respect, however, I think the language of the deputy judge is not so
strong as that. It is the expression of a doubt, of course, and doubts should be
respected and taken into account. But it is clear from the last sentence of the quotation
above that the deputy judge did not mean to express any concluded view. Sitting, as I
am, in a court of coordinate jurisdiction, I do not consider that the convention that
judges at High Court level normally follow each other's judgements applies in this
case. In this respect, I am fortified by the contrary (if tentative) view apparently
expressed by Lindsay J in HM Customs and Excise v Jack Baars Wholesale [2004]
BPIR 543, referred to in the commentary in Muir Hunter on Personal Insolvency,
already mentioned (although I was not taken to the text of the judgment itself), and by
the decision of Norris J in Regis Direct Ltd v Hakeem [2012] EWHC 4328 (Ch), to
which I shall come shortly.
To my mind, in any event, the more important point in the Chohan case is that the
deputy judge considered the wording of paragraph (d) in some detail. He said that:
"23... That paragraph means that there must be a valid application outstanding
at the relevant time, that is to say one properly made and made in time. An
application made out of time is not such an application. Technically, unless and
until the court extends the time for making the application, it cannot be a valid
application."
This is relevant to Mr Trevis's point that, at the time of the presentation of the petition
in August, there was outstanding an application by the appellant to set aside the
statutory demand, and therefore s 267(2)(d) was not satisfied, and the petition could
not have been validly presented.
Respondent's submissions
22.
Mr Wooding said that the permission given on 14 September 2017 to the appellant to
apply for an order setting aside the statutory demand was prospective only, and not
retrospective. There were very few examples of potential or actual retrospectivity in
the CPR, such as rule 3.1(2)(a) and rule 6.15(2) (neither of which was at all relevant
to the present case). He submitted that, properly analysed, the provisions of the
7
Page 174 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
23.
Webster v Ashcroft, 8BS0149C
Practice Direction relating to civil restraint orders made clear that permission under
such an order to make an application was prospective only.
CPR Practice Direction 3C, so far as relevant, provides:
"3.3. Where a party who is subject to an extended civil restraint order -
(1)... makes an application in a court identified in the order concerning any
matter involving or relating to or touching upon or leading to the
proceedings in which the order is made without first obtaining the
permission of a judge identified in the order, the ... application will
automatically be ... dismissed -
(a) without the judge having to make any further order;
24.
3.4. A party who is subject to an extended civil restraint order may not make an
application for permission ... without first serving notice of the application on the
other party in accordance with paragraph 3.5.
3.5. A notice under paragraph 3.4 must
(1) set out the nature and grounds of the application; and
(2) provide the other party with at least seven days within which to
respond."
Mr Wooding points to the provision in paragraph 3.3(1)(a) which results in an
application made in breach of the permission requirement being automatically
dismissed without the need for any further order. He says the procedure in paragraph
3.4 shows that the other party must know of the intended application before it is
made, and paragraph 3.5(2) shows that there must be a gap of seven days between the
notice of the application and the next step taken by the applicant. He says that
accordingly where the party subject to an extended civil restraint order issues an
application in the court without first having obtained permission under the civil
restraint order, the effect is that the application is automatically dismissed. Hence, by
the time the petition in the present case was presented, there was no "outstanding
application to set aside the statutory demand", and the condition in s 267(2)(d) was
accordingly satisfied.
Discussion
25.
The respondent's argument therefore is that the permission requirement once fulfilled
looks forward only and not backwards as well. In this connection I may also mention
another part of the judgment of Mr Mann QC in Times Newspapers Ltd v Chohan
(Limitation Periods) [2001] 1WLR 184. That case of course concerned an application
(out of time) for an extension of time in which to make an application to set aside a
statutory demand rather than an application for permission under an ECRO to make
such an application.
26.
The deputy judge said:
8
Page 175 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Ashcroft, 8BS0149C
27.
"21. Mr Lamacraft's submissions on the point were advanced succinctly and can
be shortly stated. He says that when Mr Deputy Registrar Brettle extended the
time for making the application to set aside had the effect of relating back the
application to set aside itself so that it should be treated as having been extant at
the moment it was presented to the court...
22. Mr Morgan drew attention to the opening words of section 267(2) and in
particular the words “at the time the petition is presented”. That, he said, is the
time at which one judges the question of the fulfilment of the requirements of the
rest of the subsection, and in this case there was no outstanding application at the
time of the petition. ‘Application' means a valid and timeous application.
Although there was an application of a sort outstanding, it was not in time and
was therefore not valid. The subsequent extension of time for making the
application did not have retrospective effect so as to deem something to be the
case that was not in fact the case at the time the petition was presented...
23. I agree with the registrar that there was no breach of the requirements of
paragraph (d). That paragraph means that there must be a valid application
outstanding at the relevant time, that is to say one properly made and made in
time. An application made out of time is not such an application. Technically,
unless and until the court extends the time for making the application, it cannot be
a valid application."
The same reasoning, as it seems to me, applies to the present case. Indeed, in this case
is even stronger. Applications to extend time are, as already noted, one of the few
cases where there is any attempt at retrospectivity in the CPR. There is no trace of any
such retrospectivity in the provisions relating to applications for permission under
civil restraint orders to make applications in existing proceedings. If an application for
an extension of time, subsequently granted, does not retrospectively validate an
application to set aside a statutory demand so that for the purposes of section 267(2)
there remains an outstanding application, then it can hardly be the case that an
application made without permission under a civil restraint order could be validated
retrospectively so as to produce that same effect for the purposes of this section.
No material difference
28.
29.
Mr Wooding contended that, even if the order of 14 September 2017 did
retrospectively validate the application to set aside, it made no material difference. He
relied on the decision of Norris J in Regis Direct Ltd v Hakeem [2012] EWHC 4328
(Ch), an appeal from the County Court. There the debtor on 22 August 2010 issued an
application to set aside a statutory demand that had been served upon him.
Unfortunately, the court wrongly failed to process that application and it was never
served on the creditor, who presented a bankruptcy petition on 13 October 2010, still
unaware of the application's existence. The district judge was told at the hearing of
the petition that an application to set aside the statutory demand was outstanding but
nevertheless made the bankruptcy order. Seemingly in ignorance of the existence of
the bankruptcy order, a few days later the application to set aside the statutory
demand was then heard and dismissed on its merits.
The debtor argued that the bankruptcy order was void for non-compliance with s
267(2)(d). Norris J held that it was not, despite the non-compliance. He said:
9
Page 176 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Ashcroft, 8BS0149C
30.
31.
"19. The petitioner who knows there is an outstanding application to set aside the
demand knows he will not be able to establish that the debtor is unable to pay the
debt but that is not the position here. At the time when the petition was presented
Regis did not know there was an outstanding application to set aside the statutory
demand and they did not know that because through a combination of the court
taking a bad point and Mr Hakeem's inactivity no sealed application notice was
issued and Mr Hakeem had not, in accordance with the Insolvency Rule 7.43
served notice of his application on Regis.
20. In those circumstances Parliament would not have intended that the petition
issued by such a creditor should be void, a nullity and automatically of no effect.
It seems to me that in those circumstances the petitioner correctly presented the
petition, and the question that arises is whether under section 266(3) the court
should dismiss it or state, and if staying it whether to stay at on terms or
otherwise. That said, I do think DJ Gill erred in law in making the bankruptcy
order on 22 March 2011. The correct course to follow would have been to have
adjourned the petition once it became clear Mr Hakeem's application to set aside
the statutory demand was outstanding. When the fate of that application was
known, the petition could be restored and ruled on."
Section 266(3), referred to by Norris J, provides as follows:
"The court has a general power, if it appears to be appropriate to do so on the
grounds that there has been a contravention of the rules or for any other reason, to
dismiss a bankruptcy petition or to stay proceedings on such a petition; and,
where it stays proceedings on the petition, it may do so on such terms and
conditions as it thinks fit."
Norris J went on to hold that the correct course would have been to adjourn the
petition until the outcome of the application to set aside was known. However, it was
now known that the application failed. There was no suggestion that if the petition
had been presented immediately after the application to set aside had been dismissed
(some three days later) the debtor would have had any answer to it. Accordingly, there
was no prejudice to the debtor, and the appeal court should affirm the bankruptcy
order.
Discussion
32.
33.
In the Regis Direct case the creditor did not know of the debtor's application to set
aside the statutory demand because it had not been properly processed by the court
and the debtor did nothing about it. In the present case the creditor, if she knew of the
application made to set aside statutory demand, was entitled to take the view that it
was automatically dismissed by virtue of PD 3C para 3.3(1)(a), and therefore did not
know that there was a valid outstanding application to set aside when the petition was
presented. It is only if I were to hold on this appeal that the giving of permission on
14 September 2017 retrospectively validated the application to set aside that the
creditor would now know that there had in fact been a valid application outstanding at
the time of the presentation of the petition.
But the important difference between this case and the Regis Direct case is that, in
this case, once permission had been given in September 2017, the hearing of the
10
Page 177 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Ashcroft, 8BS0149C
34.
petition was adjourned to await the result of the hearing of the application to set aside.
That means that what Norris J said ought to happen actually did happen here. It also
means that the judge at the hearing of the bankruptcy petition knew the result of the
application to set aside.
In accordance with the usual convention, I should follow the decision of Norris J that
the presentation of a bankruptcy petition in breach of s 267(2)(d) does not render the
petition void, but on the contrary, it is “correctly presented”, unless I am convinced
that the decision is wrong. I am not so convinced, despite the doubt of Mr Mann QC
on the "waivability" of the defect in the Chohan case. That being so, and the
application to set aside having been dismissed on its merits, I cannot see that the
district judge, in deciding in the exercise of his discretion what costs order to make
made any error of law or failed to take into account material considerations (and only
such considerations).
Conclusion
35.
In my judgment the district judge went wrong neither in law nor in the exercise of
judicial discretion. Accordingly, this appeal fails, and must be dismissed.
11
Page 178 of 380
IN THE COUNTY COURT AT YEOVIL
Case No: F00YE161
BEFORE:
DISTRICT JUDGE WALSH
The Law Courts
Petters Way
Yeovil
BA20 1SW
Thursday, 16 January 2020
BETWEEN:
TRUSTEES OF THE J.S. NEAL ESTATE TRUST
Claimants
- and -
PERSONS UNKNOWN & RUPERT ST. JOHN WEBSTER
MR M CLARKE appeared on behalf of the Claimants
MR R TREVIS appeared on behalf of the Second Defendant
JUDGMENT
Defendants
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol, BS32 4NE
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/ Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance with
relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the case
concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the applicable
information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the internet, including
social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making sure that applicable
restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment.
For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask at the court office or take legal
advice.
1
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 179 of 380
1.
2.
3.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: This is my ex tempore judgment in the matter of Bruce
Weir and Lesley Gaskell acting as trustees of the J. S. Neal Trust against
Mr Rupert St. John Webster as second defendant. For reasons that were not always
clear to me, the proceedings commenced as a claim against persons unknown when it
was known that it was Mr Webster who was in occupation, and I know he took
umbrage at the omission of his name early in these proceedings but that is a historic
issue. This is, as I have said, an ex tempore judgment; it is being given at ten to five on
a Thursday evening. I decided not to reserve judgment because it is in all the parties'
interests that they should have the benefit of a judgment today but I reserve my right,
as I am entitled to do, to augment my reasons should the matter go any further.
It is, as I understand it, common ground that the claimants are the registered freehold
owners of Bondip Farmhouse in Kingsdon in Somerton in Somerset; it is also common
ground that that land and property was subject to a lease granted for a term of 35 years,
from 29 September 1994, the lease itself being dated 6 March 1995. The term would
accordingly expire in 2029 if it is not, or has not been, determined sooner. It appears
(indeed, it is common ground again) that there were previous proceedings between
these parties and also Jennifer St. John Webster, named as second defendant under
claim number E00YE247, and that resulted in an order of Deputy District
Judge Collins, to which I will return in due course. That order struck out a claim for
possession which has been characterised before me by Mr Trevis, counsel for the
second defendant, as proceedings that were identical to the present. I should say that
Mr Clarke appears for the claimants.
Under the terms of the previous order, as I have indicated, those proceedings stood
struck out on 6 June; these proceedings were commenced on 11 June 2019. By an
application dated 26 September 2019, the claimants applied to strike out the defence of
the second defendant under Civil Procedure Rule 3.4(2)(a) which is, of course, the
provision which provides that the court may strike out a statement of case if it appears
to the court that the statement of case discloses no reasonable grounds for bringing or
defending the claim.
2
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 180 of 380
4.
5.
The 1995 lease that I have alluded to was granted by Prudence Neal to Edward Marrow
and Patricia Marrow. The defence that has been filed by the second defendant states
that Edward Marrow died on 17 August 1995 and that the lease accordingly vested in
Patricia Marrow by survivorship. The defence goes on to state (and again I think it is
common ground) that Patricia Marrow died on 25 December 2017 and, under her last
will, she appointed Jennifer St. John Webster, Miranda Maby and Priscilla Keezer as
her executrices. They were her daughters. I am told that one of the two other
executrices (Jennifer being alive and the second defendant's mother) predeceased
Patricia Marrow (I believe that to be Miranda Maby) and the third executor lives in
Scotland; to the best of the parties' knowledge today no grant of probate has as yet been
extracted. Under the terms of the will, Patricia Marrow has left her estate to her three
daughters.
What the defence goes on to say is that on 29 August 2018 the second defendant served
notice on the claimants exercising, or purporting to exercise, a right to enfranchise in
respect of the property of which possession is sought today, that right to enfranchise
being exercised pursuant to the provisions of section 1 of the Leasehold Reform Act
1967. Specifically, at paragraph 12(a) it is said the second defendant was "acting on
behalf of and with the authority of the executors". That notice appears in my bundle at
pages 92 and 93. It is addressed to Mr Weir and Lesley Gaskell as trustees of the J. S.
Neal (Deceased) Trust and it says this:
"(1) I am the tenant of the house and premises of which particulars
are given in the schedule to this notice.
(2) In exercise of my rights under part 1 of the Leasehold Reform
Act 1967, I give you notice of my desire to have the freehold of the
house and premises.
(3) The particulars on which I rely are set out in the schedule to
this
notice."
6.
Paragraph (4) then sets out certain mandatory content, and at paragraph (5) it says:
3
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 181 of 380
"(5) I have served a copy of this notice on Jennifer St. John
Webster."
7.
The schedule with particulars supporting the tenant's claim runs to some seven
paragraphs. I do not need to read out the entirety of those. What is particularly
germane in my view is that at (6) and (7) it says:
"(6) The house and premises have been the tenant's principal
residence since early 2015, as set out in the defendant's first
statement to the landlord's possession claim.
(7) Mrs Marrow, the registered leaseholder, died on Christmas Day
2017, as set out within the defendant's first statement. She was my
grandmother. I rely on the rights of members of the family
succeeding to the tenancy and on my rights to reasonable financial
provision by the Inheritance Act 1975 as if she enfranchised the
house and premises herself or requested extension of her lease."
8.
9.
The application that I am determining, namely whether I should strike out the defence
and grant possession, says a number of things. First, it is the claimant's position that
the defence, predicated as it is by reliance upon the 1967 Act, is ill-conceived and
bound to fail because the tenancy of 1995 had already determined by surrender.
Paragraph (6) of the application says this:
"(6) On 31 July Jennifer St. John Webster, having vacated the
property previously, handed over possession of the property and
keys to the claimant's agents, thereby surrendering any right she
had to the property, and the property was secured."
In support of that position a number of statements were filed. There is a statement
from Ms Natalie Rendall of Greenslade Taylor Hunt. That statement explains that she
is the residential sales manager at Greenslade's and goes on to say that:
"On 31 July 2018 I was asked to assist Claire Crumb on an
attendance at Bondip Farmhouse, Kingsdon BA22 8JL in order to
receive the keys of the property from Jennifer St. John Webster.
Claire had been asked by Neil Biffen at Greenslade Taylor Hunt to
4
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 182 of 380
