HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
33.
c. Claim No. B30BS071 (“the Trespass and Injunction Proceedings")
whereby the First Defendant and Virginia, as the then legal owners of
The Priory, obtained permanent injunctive relief against the Claimant's
slander of their title and trespass on The Priory by order of HHJ
McCahill QC dated 23 March 2015."
In this judgment, I shall use the expressions “the Original Claim”, “the Possession
Proceedings” and “the Trespass and Injunction Proceedings" in the same way, to refer
to the three sets of proceedings referred to above respectively. One consequence of
the claimant's lack of success in all the litigation in which he has been involved to
date is that adverse costs orders have swallowed up all the interests to which he was
entitled under the various wills and trusts. This has an impact on parts of the present
application.
Limitation
34.
35.
Paragraph 7 of the defence goes on to say:
"Without prejudice to the remainder of the Defence set out below, the claim was
issued on 9 February 2021. Any claim in negligence arising out of any act before
9 February 2006 is accordingly barred for limitation pursuant to s. 14B Limitation
Act 1980. The Defendants contend that insofar as they purport to allege
negligence against the First and/or Second Defendants, then paragraphs 8 to 20
should be struck out accordingly."
The relevant provisions of the Limitation Act 1980 are as follows:
"2. Time limit for actions founded on tort.
An action founded on tort shall not be brought after the expiration of six years
from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
[...]
5. Time limit for actions founded on simple contract.
An action founded on simple contract shall not be brought after the expiration of
six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued.
[...]
[14A.― Special time limit for negligence actions where facts relevant to cause of
action are not known at date of accrual.
(1) This section applies to any action for damages for negligence, other than
one to which section 11 of this Act applies, where the starting date for
reckoning the period of limitation under subsection (4)(b) below falls after
the date on which the cause of action accrued.
(2) Section 2 of this Act shall not apply to an action to which this section
applies.
17
Page 321 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
(3) An action to which this section applies shall not be brought after the
expiration of the period applicable in accordance with subsection (4) below.
(4) That period is either—
(a) six years from the date on which the cause of action accrued; or
(b) three years from the starting date as defined by subsection (5)
below, if that period expires later than the period mentioned in
paragraph (a) above.
(5) For the purposes of this section, the starting date for reckoning the
period of limitation under subsection (4)(b) above is the earliest date on
which the plaintiff or any person in whom the cause of action was vested
before him first had both the knowledge required for bringing an action for
damages in respect of the relevant damage and a right to bring such an
action.
(6) In subsection (5) above ‘the knowledge required for bringing an action
for damages in respect of the relevant damage' means knowledge both—
(a) of the material facts about the damage in respect of which
damages are claimed; and
(b) of the other facts relevant to the current action mentioned in
subsection (8) below.
(7) For the purposes of subsection (6)(a) above, the material facts about the
damage are such facts about the damage as would lead a reasonable person
who had suffered such damage to consider it sufficiently serious to justify
his instituting proceedings for damages against a defendant who did not
dispute liability and was able to satisfy a judgment.
(8) The other facts referred to in subsection (6)(b) above are—
(a) that the damage was attributable in whole or in part to the act or
omission which is alleged to constitute negligence; and
(b) the identity of the defendant; and
(c) if it is alleged that the act or omission was that of a person other
than the defendant, the identity of that person and the additional facts
supporting the bringing of an action against the defendant.
(9) Knowledge that any acts or omissions did or did not, as a matter of law,
involve negligence is irrelevant for the purposes of subsection (5) above.
(10) For the purposes of this section a person's knowledge includes
knowledge which he might reasonably have been expected to acquire―
(a) from facts observable or ascertainable by him; or
18
Page 322 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
(b) from facts ascertainable by him with the help of appropriate expert
advice which it is reasonable for him to seek;
but a person shall not be taken by virtue of this subsection to have
knowledge of a fact ascertainable only with the help of expert advice
so long as he has taken all reasonable steps to obtain (and, where
appropriate, to act on) that advice.]
[14B. Overriding time limit for negligence actions not involving personal
injuries.
(1) An action for damages for negligence, other than one to which section
11 of this Act applies, shall not be brought after the expiration of fifteen
years from the date (or, if more than one, from the last of the dates) on
which there occurred any act or omission―
(a) which is alleged to constitute negligence; and
(b) to which the damage in respect of which damages are claimed is
alleged to be attributable (in whole or in part).
(2) This section bars the right of action in a case to which subsection (1)
above applies notwithstanding that—
(a) the cause of action has not yet accrued; or
(b) where section 14A of this Act applies to the action, the date which
is for the purposes of that section the starting date for reckoning the
period mentioned in subsection (4)(b) of that section has not yet
occurred;
before the end of the period of limitation prescribed by this section.]
[ … ]
21. Time limit for actions in respect of trust property.
(1) No period of limitation prescribed by this Act shall apply to an action by
a beneficiary under a trust, being an action—
(a) in respect of any fraud or fraudulent breach of trust to which the
trustee was a party or privy; or
(b) to recover from the trustee trust property or the proceeds of trust
property in the possession of the trustee, or previously received by the
trustee and converted to his use.
(2) Where a trustee who is also a beneficiary under the trust receives or
retains trust property or its proceeds as his share on a distribution of trust
property under the trust, his liability in any action brought by virtue of
subsection (1)(b) above to recover that property or its proceeds after the
expiration of the period of limitation prescribed by this Act for bringing an
19
Page 323 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
36.
37.
38.
action to recover trust property shall be limited to the excess over his proper
share. This subsection only applies if the trustee acted honestly and
reasonably in making the distribution.
(3) Subject to the preceding provisions of this section, an action by a
beneficiary to recover trust property or in respect of any breach of trust, not
being an action for which a period of limitation is prescribed by any other
provision of this Act, shall not be brought after the expiration of six years
from the date on which the right of action accrued. For the purposes of this
subsection, the right of action shall not be treated as having accrued to any
beneficiary entitled to a future interest in the trust property until the interest
fell into possession.
(4) No beneficiary as against whom there would be a good defence under
this Act shall derive any greater or other benefit from a judgment or order
obtained by any other beneficiary than he could have obtained if he had
brought the action and this Act had been pleaded in defence.”
As I have already said, no reply has been filed by the claimant, and accordingly, with
one possible exception, no facts are pleaded which might engage the provisions of
Part II of the Limitation Act 1980 to postpone or extend the relevant limitation
periods. The one possible exception is that the claimant argues that his father's motor
neurone disease constituted a “disability” for the purposes of sections 28 and 28A.
However, and as was pointed out by Mr Wooding for the defendants, section 38(2) of
the Act provides that:
"For the purposes of this Act a person shall be treated as under a disability while
he is an infant, or [lacks capacity (within the meaning of the Mental Capacity Act
2005) to conduct legal proceedings]."
It is clear therefore that a physical illness is not enough for this purpose, unless it
deprives the person of capacity. The claimant accepted before me that that was not
this case.
In one of the letters he wrote to the court after the hearing (to which I refer at the end
of this judgment) the claimant sought to apply section 38(2) to himself, because he
said a lack of capacity was alleged of him in relation to the application in 2015 to
exhume the body of his late father. Even if that were true, it would not show that he
lacked mental capacity for the purposes of the section 38(2) at the time of the
application. Moreover, and as I have already said, the claimant has not filed a reply to
plead any reliance on the provisions of the Limitation Act extending time limits. In
any event, the factual premise is wrong. As will be seen later, there was no suggestion
in Mrs Jennifer Webster's application for exhumation that the claimant lacked mental
capacity.
In English law, the cause of action for breach of contract is complete without proof of
substantive loss: see eg Gibbs v Guild (1881) 8 QBD 296. However, the cause of
action in the tort of negligence is not complete until the claimant has suffered
actionable damage as a result of the breach of duty: see eg Coburn v Colledge [1897]
1 QB 702, CA. The date on which that happens is the date of the accrual of the cause
of action. Where the claim is for negligent professional advice, the loss generally
20
20
Page 324 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
occurs at the time that the client enters into the transaction in reliance on the advice,
rather than when the transaction later goes wrong or produces an adverse result:
Forster v Outred & Co [1982] 1 WLR 86, CA. However, the imposition of a wholly
contingent liability does not amount to actual loss unless and until the contingency
occurs: Law Society v Sephton & Co [2006] 2 AC 543, HL. It is also clear that where
a lawyer advises negligently on a scheme to save inheritance tax, there is no claim in
negligence for the deceased (because the liability to pay the tax is a liability which
arises only on death), and therefore no such claim can pass into the estate, although, if
there were, it would arise at the time that the advice was implemented: Daniels v
Thompson [2004] EWCA Civ 307, [42], [59], [72].
Discussion
Paragraphs 7 and 8
39.
I turn therefore to the application of the rules I have set out to the claimant's case
before me. Paragraphs 7 and 8 make a number of claims. One is that the advice on
estate planning given by a firm called Bevirs in February 1992 was wrong and that the
defendants “administered it anyway causing loss and damage” to the estate of Captain
Antony Webster (the claimant's grandfather). So far as the claim is not against the
defendants it must fail anyway, because Bevirs are not a party. But even as against the
defendants, it does not state a cause of action. Giving or administering "wrong"
advice is not in itself a tort or any other cause of action. In any event, and most
importantly, the acts and omissions complained of date from 1992, and even the
"longstop" fifteen-year limitation period under section 14B had expired before the
claim was issued. There must be summary judgment for the defendants in relation to
this part of the claim.
Paragraphs 8.3 and 8.4
40.
Another claim in paragraphs 8.3 and 8.4 is that the defendants would not claim
agricultural property relief from inheritance tax on Captain Webster's estate and
neither would they apply what is said to be the "protection" of the Trusts of Land and
Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 for the benefit of the claimant's family. The
failures were said in paragraph 8.4 to amount to fraud under sections 3 and 4 of the
Fraud Act 2006. First of all, the pleading in paragraph 8.3 does not state a cause of
action, eg it does not allege that the omissions were negligent and/or in breach of
duty, giving particulars. Merely pleading that this amounts to the criminal office of
"fraud” (without any particulars) does not improve matters. But again the fundamental
problem is that the acts and omissions complained of date from the period after
Captain Webster's death in 1996, and even the “longstop” fifteen year period had
expired before the claim was issued. There must again be summary judgment for the
defendants under this head.
Paragraphs 9 to 12
41.
Paragraphs 9 to 12 claim that the mutual intentions of Captain Webster and his wife
Valerie, including to confer life interests upon the claimant and his father Valentine,
and an alleged “deal” among beneficiaries on the future of his farm were not
implemented by "the wills and trust produced” by the defendants. The first problem
for the claimant here is that the allegations in respect of the mutual intentions and the
21
Page 325 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
42.
43.
alleged "deal" were made in two of the earlier proceedings involving the claimant and
resolved against him. In the Original Claim HHJ Purle QC held that the proprietary
estoppel claim advanced by the claimant on behalf of his father's estate wholly failed.
As the judge put it, having regard to the structure put in place in 1992,
"30... That structure is wholly inconsistent with the estoppel claim. For that
claim to succeed, I must find that Antony and Valerie did one thing, and told
Valentine something different. Not only am I not persuaded that that was the
case, but it is clear that all family members in fact knew what occurred in 1992,
and (in due course) that Antony's will trust duly took effect in 1996. ...”
Accordingly, there was no such mutual intention, nor any "deal" amongst the intended
beneficiaries.
In addition, the claimant attempted to run the argument again in the Possession
Proceedings before HHJ McCahill QC, in seeking permission to amend his statement
of case in those proceedings. But the judge both struck out the remaining parts of the
proceedings and also refused permission to amend. Accordingly, to entertain these
allegations again in these proceedings would be to permit the collateral attack on
earlier decisions.
But even if that were not so, once more the fundamental problem is that the acts and
omissions complained of date from 1992 through to the period after Captain
Webster's death in 1996, and even the “longstop" fifteen-year period had expired
before the claim was issued. There must once again be summary judgment for the
defendants.
Paragraphs 13 to 16
44.
Paragraphs 13 to 16 plead Captain Webster's death on 10 February 1996, allege that
the defendants failed to ensure any deal among Captain Webster's issue, and in July
1996 both falsely represented that life interests could not be created and gave
negligent advice to Mrs Valerie Webster in a letter, which misled her into revoking
her 1992 will by making a new one in September 1998 (itself “revised" by a further
will of November 2000), so that the “mutual aims” of Captain and Mrs Webster were
not carried out. Once again, the problem is that the acts and omissions complained of
date from 1996 through to 2001, and even the “longstop” fifteen-year period had
expired before the claim was issued. There must therefore be summary judgment on
this part of the claim for the defendants. In any event, the claim on behalf of Mrs
Valerie Webster's estate must also fail, for two distinct reasons. One is that the
claimant has no standing to make it, not being her personal representative. The other
is that her 1998 will was not her last will (that was the will of 2006) and so any
complaints that the defendants obtained the revocation of the 1998 will could not be
causative of any loss. There are other problems with this part of the case as well, but
in the circumstances it is not necessary to deal with them.
Paragraph 17
45.
Paragraph 17 is an allegation of reliance by the claimant on the alleged
encouragement “to expect to own ‘The Priory' farmhouse..." This claim must fail for
the same reasons as given in relation to the claim under paragraphs 9 to 12 above,
22
Page 326 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
namely that it amounts to a collateral attack on decisions made in the Original
Proceedings and the Possession Proceedings, and in any event the acts complained of
took place so long ago that they are now statute barred under section 14B, if not under
section 2.
Paragraphs 18 and 19
46.
Paragraphs 18 and 19 deal with an offer in July 2005 by the first defendant to retire as
executor and trustee of Captain Webster's will, which was not implemented, even
though the first defendant had allegedly lost the confidence of Mrs Webster and her
children. But these allegations do not amount to an allegation of the tort of
negligence, or indeed any other tort, and must therefore fail. In addition, the acts and
omissions complained of took place more than 15 years before this claim was issued,
and are accordingly caught by section 14B of the 1980 Act. There must therefore be
summary judgment in favour of the defendants.
Paragraphs 20-22 and 24
47.
48.
Paragraphs 20-22 and 24 deal with the attempt in 2005 by Mrs Valerie Webster to
instruct another solicitor to prepare a codicil to her will and the preparation by the
defendants of a further will of Mrs Webster dated 24 May 2006, revoking her will of
2000. This will had appointed the claimant's father as an executor and trustee, but the
2006 will appointed the first defendant instead, it is said on the basis that the
claimant's father was then suffering from motor neurone disease. The claimant says
that this was contrary to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with
Disabilities. The claimant pleads an attempted revocation by Mrs Webster of the May
2006 will by a further will and letter in September 2006.
This part of the claim is wholly inconsistent with, and therefore amounts to a
collateral attack on, the decision in the Original Claim to admit the 2006 will to
probate in solemn form, and the finding that Mrs Webster knew and approved the
contents. In his judgment, the judge said this:
"49. Mr Penley confirmed that this was an accurate attendance note. He also
explained in an affidavit that he made on 1st June 2006 that he explained the Will
in considerable detail including taking her through the Will line by line for the
relevant clauses. I accept that evidence. No-one has challenged Valerie's capacity
at this time. That is, of course, a separate question of whether she knew and
approved of the contents of this Will. The evidence before me was that Valerie
not merely had sufficient capacity but was generally in full possession of her
mental faculties right up to the day she died, despite her great age (98 when she
made the 2006 Will). She was a strong-willed lady perfectly capable of making
up her own mind. Moreover, the same attendance note reveals that she raised with
Mr Penley intelligent questions concerning tax penalties.
50. I have no doubt that Valerie knew and approved of the contents of the 2006
Will. It makes no difference that the instructions to Mr Penley came from Rory.
Rory was her son and she trusted him to pass on her wishes. Likewise, it makes
no difference that Rory and Virginia were both present. That was Valerie's wish.
What matters is that the contents were fully explained to her, and that she
23
23
Page 327 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
understood the Will, which I am satisfied she did. The Will was a rational
response to the dilemma that Valentine might well die before her.
51. It is said that she gave different instructions to another solicitor, Mrs Booth,
not long previously (initially in mid to late 2005, and then again in early 2006).
Mrs Booth declined to carry out those instructions, as she did not feel it
appropriate for Valerie to be completing any fresh documentation in view of her
great age and current health. I leave aside the period immediately following
Valentine's death, dealt with later. As capacity is not challenged before me, this
point is of minimal relevance. The fact that she made different dispositions in the
events which happened is not that unusual or remarkable. Old people commonly
do change their wills. Anyone can change their mind from one month to the next,
or even from one day to the next.
[...]
55. In all the circumstances, I pronounce in favour of the validity of the 2006
Will."
Accordingly, this part of the claim must be struck out as an abuse of process.
Paragraphs 23 and 25 to 27
49.
Paragraph 23 pleads the claimant's father's death on 16 September 2006, and
paragraph 25 pleads the death of Mrs Webster in August 2007. The defendants admit
both. Paragraph 26 pleads that on 2 June 2008 the defendants wrote to the claimant's
mother Jennifer “to confirm the inheritance position on Valerie's [the grandmother's]
estate”. Paragraph 27 alleges that the defendants did not remain neutral, “by
proactively litigating against the [claimant's] family..." None of these paragraphs,
singly or taken together, makes allegations amounting to professional or any other
kind of negligence, nor indeed to any other cause of action. They should be struck out.
Paragraph 28
50.
Paragraph 28 alleges a breach of the second defendant's contract of retainer on 22
July 2014 by completing Panel 12 in the Form FR1 relating to the registration of The
Priory incorrectly, with alleged knowledge of the misstatement in question, namely
that only the first defendant “is in actual possession of the property...". Paragraph 29
refers to this as a “fraudulent title registered at Land Registry”. So far as there is an
allegation of breach of contract, any such cause of action, having accrued on or before
22 July 2014, would now be barred by section 5 of the Limitation Act 1980. Any
cause of action in tort would also have arisen on the same date, as being the date of
registration, and therefore when any damage would be suffered. That would be barred
by section 2 of the Limitation Act 1980. In the circumstances I do not think I need to
decide whether there would have been any real prospect of successfully showing
negligence or breach of contract on the facts, although, for the reasons set out in
paragraph 52 of the Defence, my present view is that there would not. I must give
summary judgment to the defendants on this part of the claim.
Paragraph 29
24
Page 328 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
51.
Paragraph 29 goes on to allege that the defendants illegally seized the claimant's
possessions and wrongfully evicted him and his children without consent or a court
order, which it is said was an offence under the 1996 Act. These are matters dealt with
in both the Possession Proceedings and the Trespass and Injunction Proceedings, and
this part of the claim is therefore an attack on the findings of DDJ Orme (who struck
out an allegation that the claimant had a tenancy in relation to The Priory) and of HHJ
McCahill QC (who struck out the rest of the proceedings) in the former proceedings
and of HHJ McCahill QC in the latter, and amounts to an abuse of process. This part
of the claim should therefore be struck out.
Paragraph 30
52.
Paragraph 30 alleges that the "illegally obtained title was used to obtain [the
claimant's] wrongful arrest by the Police". This does not however state a cause of
action against the defendants, and should also be struck out.
Paragraphs 31 and 32
53.
Paragraphs 31 and 32 deal with the possession proceedings brought (successfully) by
the first defendant and Virginia Ashcroft against the claimant in respect of The Priory,
and the later sale by them of the property to a third party. These paragraphs also make
no claim against the defendants and should be struck out.
Paragraph 33
54.
Paragraph 33 alleges that the defendants “failed to take proper care in an application
to the Home Office" for the exhumation of the claimant's father's remains from the
property. This paragraph does not state a cause of action. For example, it does not
plead any loss. Moreover, the particulars of the failure to take proper care are that the
defendants "approv[ed] a false statement that [the claimant] suffers from mental
illness that means that [the claimant] should not be informed of a family matter." A
copy of the application for exhumation contained in the bundle provided to the court
by the claimant shows that in fact the application was made to the Ministry of Justice,
but more fundamentally was not made by the defendants at all. It was made by Mrs
Jennifer Webster, the claimant's mother. Nor did it state that the claimant suffered
from "mental illness”. It said that he was against the sale of the property and would do
everything in his power to stop it. It further said he was “mentally unstable over all of
this”, and it would be better not to inform him of the application. Thus, even if a
complete cause of action had been alleged by this paragraph, I would have granted
reverse summary judgment on the basis that there is no real prospect of the claimant
succeeding on this part of his claim.
Paragraph 34
55.
Paragraph 34 pleads that the second defendant retained the proceeds of sale of The
Priory, and also that Virginia Ashcroft brought a claim against the first defendant
which was not notified to the claimant, his mother or his children. A copy of the claim
form, sealed on 20 August 2019, was included in the claimant's bundle before me.
The claim was one under CPR Part 8 for the first defendant to be removed as executor
of Valerie Webster's estate under section 50 of the Administration of Justice Act
1985. The claimant was not a party to the claim, and there was no legal requirement
25
Page 329 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
that he should be one. Neither of these allegations can amount, without more, to a
cause of action against the defendants, and this paragraph should be struck out
accordingly.
Paragraph 35
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
Lastly, paragraph 35 pleads the loss and damage allegedly suffered by the claimant
and "the aforesaid St John Webster family”. So far as the claimant is seeking to make
a claim on behalf of “the aforesaid St John Webster family”, there is no clarity as to
exactly what that term means, but, even if there were, the claimant has no standing to
make such a claim. It is nowhere stated, for example, that the claimant is making any
of his claims in any representative capacity, such as the capacity of personal
representative of a named person's estate. As stated in paragraph 1 of the particulars
of claim, the claimant claims as “an intended beneficiary under the 6 April 1992
Trusts & Will of Anthony St John Webster ... and under a Trust, Settlement & Will
of Valerie St John Webster ...” That means that there is no standing to make the
claims stated in paragraphs 35.1.1 to 35.1.5 and 35.1.8 to 35.1.10, except so far as
concerns the claimant himself personally.
So far as the claim is being made on behalf of the claimant himself, the various heads
of claim encounter several difficulties. The first and most obvious is that the
preceding paragraphs of the particulars of claim either state no cause of action (see
paragraphs 23, 25-27, 30-34) or those paragraphs should be struck out (see paragraphs
20-22, 24, 29) or reverse summary judgment should be given against the claimant in
respect of them (see paragraphs 7-19, 28). Accordingly, the particulars of loss cannot
take the matter any further. To put the matter another way, you cannot turn something
which is not a claim in law into such a claim by saying that you have suffered a loss
in respect of it (except in the case where allegations not amounting to a claim in tort
are completed by an allegation of loss, which is not the case here). Nor can you turn a
claim which has been struck out or in respect of which summary judgment has been
given against you into a claim which has not been struck out or has not had summary
judgment given in respect of it, by saying that you have suffered a loss in respect of it.
But there are other difficulties as well. As to paragraph 35.1.1 (loss of agricultural
property relief to Mrs Valerie Webster's estate, in the sum of £61,594.99), I was told
by counsel at the hearing that the claimant's one-twelfth interest in that estate has long
been exhausted by costs orders made against the claimant arising from the earlier
litigation, and a one twelfth share in an additional £61,594.99, being £5,133, would
equally have been used up.
As to paragraph 35.1.2 (loss of occupation of part of The Priory and loss of the
“mutual intentions" of Captain and Mrs Webster), the decisions in the earlier
proceedings make clear that the claimant had no such right of occupation and there
were no such enforceable “mutual intentions".
As to paragraph 35.1.3 (unlawful eviction) this was the subject of the Possession
Proceedings which were struck out as totally without merit.
As to paragraph 35.1.4 (unpaid works on the property in the 1980s), the claimant
showed me the invoices concerned, but not only was the work alleged to have been
26
Page 330 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.
done by the claimant's father, but the work was done in the period from the 1980s to
2006, and any claim is accordingly statute barred under section 5 of the 1980 Act.
As to paragraph 35.1.5 (loss of reasonable financial provision), this appears to relate
to possible claims against Captain Webster's estate under the Inheritance (Provision
for Families and Dependants) Act 1975. However, such claims must be made within
six months of probate being obtained, and are now long out of time. Moreover, at no
time since the death of Captain Webster in 1996 has the claimant attempted to make
such a claim.
As to paragraph 35.1.6 (loss of the claimant's Maidenhead flat in 2001), the judgment
of HHJ Purle QC in the Original Claim said:
"23. ... In my judgment, no representation or promise to the effect suggested by
Rupert was ever made. Nor, if I am wrong about that, was there detrimental
reliance."
Hence the decision of the claimant to sell the flat was his own.
As to paragraph 35.1.7 (loss of earnings as a result of DJ Million's order of 24 March
2009), this is the opportunity cost to the claimant of litigating (and losing) the
Original Claim. It is therefore not recoverable in any event.
As to paragraph 35.1.8 (loss of registration of rights in The Priory), the decisions in
the earlier proceedings make clear that the claimant had no such right capable of
binding the property and therefore capable of registration. He has therefore lost
nothing in this respect, and it would be a collateral attack on the findings of the court
to allow this paragraph to stand.
As to paragraph 35.1.9 (loss of right to purchase The Priory), the judgment of HHJ
Purle QC in the Original Claim made clear that there was no promise of any such
right. Accordingly, this paragraph is a collateral attack on that finding, and must be
struck out.
As to paragraph 35.1.10 (loss of “legal and beneficial ownership" of Captain
Webster's "trust land" since 1996) the decisions in the earlier litigation mean that the
claimant never had any right to such a thing. Accordingly, this paragraph too is a
collateral attack on that finding, and must fail.
As to paragraph 35.2 (loss of “goodwill”), this discloses no recoverable loss.
As to paragraph 35.3 (court costs since DJ Million's order of 24 March 2009), the
court orders made against the claimant in the litigation so far are decisions of the
various courts involved, as a result of the conduct of the claimant himself, and cannot
be recovered in these proceedings.
As to paragraph 35.4 (the claimant's divorce from his wife), the loss alleged is too
remote to be recoverable.
As to paragraph 35.5 (loss of the claimant's “family burial ground”), it is difficult to
see how the grave of the claimant's father in the grounds of The Priory can amount to
a "family burial ground", let alone the claimant's “family burial ground”. In any
27
Page 331 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
event, on the material before me, there is no real prospect of the claimant establishing
that any such “loss” was the responsibility of the defendants, rather than of the
claimant's mother, Jennifer Webster, who actually applied for the exhumation licence.
But the reality is that, if and to the extent that this is a loss of the claimant, it adds
nothing to his alleged losses of rights in The Priory, already discussed above. There is
no separate basis for saying that this represents a loss of the claimant.
Opportunity to amend?
72.
73.
74.
I have considered whether, in respect of the paragraphs in the particulars of claim (23,
25-27, 30-34) which are liable to be struck out for failing to state complete causes of
action, I should offer an opportunity to the claimant to amend his case so as to plead
proper causes of action, as in Kim v Park [2011] EWHC 1781 (QB), discussed earlier.
That of course was a case where the defect, though important, lay within a modest
compass, and the claimant both explained at the time why it had not been corrected,
and then subsequently provided the court with the material with which it could be
corrected.
This case is quite different. First of all, I have held that most of the claims in this
negligence action fail anyway, for other reasons, either because of limitation or
because of abuse of process. So far as concerns the remainder, the years of litigation
that the claimant has indulged in, using enormous quantities of scarce judicial
resources, with no substantive success so far, and in the process exhausting his own
entitlement to share in the family wealth in pursuit of a greater share at the expense of
his other relatives, and the number of extended civil restraint orders made against
him, demonstrate that the claimant simply cannot process his lack of success as due to
a lack of merits according to law (rather than according to his personal sense of what
would be right).
These are claims which, if they had any merits, should have been brought years ago.
Correspondingly, the claimant has had years to consider how to frame his claims, and
has had substantial assistance from pro bono counsel. Moreover, he has had the
defendants' application to strike his claim out since early August, and has made no
suggestion, let alone any attempt, to correct the defects. Here we are now in
December, four months later. In my view, given the claimant's obsession with his
claims, I do not consider that he is in any position rationally to correct the defects in
his pleaded case, and I see no sufficient reason to leave this serious professional
negligence claim hanging any longer over the heads of the defendants by giving him a
further opportunity to attempt to do so.
Conclusion
75.
The overall conclusion to which I have come is that the whole of this claim fails,
either because it is liable to be struck out, or because I should give summary judgment
to the defendants. I will deal with consequential matters in the first instance in
writing. Each party should let me have its submissions by email by 4 pm on Friday 17
December 2021, and its submissions in reply to those of the other side by 4 pm on
Tuesday 21 December 2021. I will then decide whether there needs to be an oral
hearing, or otherwise what consequential orders I should make.
28
88
Page 332 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
76.
I should here add that, after I had reserved judgment on 2 December 2021, but before
I had finished preparing this judgment, the claimant sent me a further submission in
the form of a letter dated 6 December 2021, which I ensured was copied to the other
side. On 13 December 2021 Mr Webster sent me a further letter submission, this time
copied to the other side. Strictly speaking these further submissions are too late. There
must be finality in argument, as in litigation, otherwise arguments might never be
concluded. But by that stage the decision had not yet been handed down, and, partly
because the first of them was sent only a few days after the hearing, and partly
because both were short, but without deciding whether it was proper for me to do so, I
have looked at them before reaching my decision. In fact, they made no difference.
Postscript
77.
78.
79.
80.
I have to record that, after I had circulated this judgment in draft on 13 December
2021, seeking suggestions for corrections are obvious errors, I received two further
emails from the claimant, one timed at 17:21 on 13 December 2021 and one timed at
19:23 on the same day. The earlier email thanked me for my judgment, but continued:
"An obvious omission is my interim reply dated 2 December 2021, which was filed
and served on both parties, and I enclose a copy”. The second made further, more
detailed arguments. Until I received that first email, I had not been aware that the
claimant had even prepared, let alone filed and served a reply. The claimant had not
referred to any such reply at the hearing, even when the defendant's counsel pointed
out that no reply had been served. Nor did the claimant express any intention of
preparing one, so that the propriety of doing so could be addressed.
Having now checked CE file, I can see that the one-page “Interim Reply" to which the
claimant referred me was submitted electronically at 11:42 on the 3 December 2021,
and filed electronically some 30 minutes later. This was of course the day after the
hearing of this application, and after I had reserved my judgment. At 17:58 on 13
December 2021 the defendant's counsel sent an email to me objecting to my taking
into account this further document as a matter of principle. But he also submitted that
in any event all that the document did was to repeat points made by the claimant
during his oral submissions.
In my judgment, it is far too late for the claimant to be filing further statements of
case, long out of time and without permission. There really has to be an end to the
argument, or no decision would ever be reached. The claimant had the same
opportunities to take advice, to file statements of case in accordance with the rules,
and to make arguments at the hearing as any other litigant, whether in acting person or
represented. He has taken full advantage of all three. It is quite wrong for him to try to
correct an omission (if that is what it was) and seek to gain a procedural advantage
after the hearing is over and the court has reserved its judgment.
In any event, however, I have looked at the reply, in order to see whether it would
have made any difference if it had been filed and served at the correct time. In my
opinion it would not. All of the points which it seeks to make were made either in
written or oral submissions at the hearing of this application. The only paragraphs
which bear upon the limitation defence are paragraphs 2 and 8. Both deal with dates
of knowledge by the claimant of material and other facts needed to know that an
action might be brought. But section 14A(4)(b) of the Limitation Act 1980 provides
for a limitation period of three years from the date of knowledge (if that is longer than
29
29
Page 333 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
81.
82.
83.
the usual six-year period). In paragraph 2 it refers to knowledge obtained in 2012, and
in paragraph 8 to knowledge obtained in 2015. Accordingly this pleading cannot
assist the claimant. My judgment stands.
A further matter which I should mention is that at 16:14 on 14 December 2021 the
claimant electronically submitted an application to the court via CE-File for an
extension of time in which to file a reply. This was filed electronically (and thus made
available to court staff) at 10:15 this morning. I have read the application notice,
which contains the evidence on which the claimant relies in box 10. He refers to the
decision of Morgan J in Rind v Theodore Goddard [2008] EWHC 459 (Ch). That was
a decision on different facts. In particular, the judge held that the limitation periods in
that case had not expired by the time the claim was issued. I am satisfied that, for the
reasons already given, the intended reply would make no difference to my decision.
Accordingly, I have decided not to delay the handing-down of this judgment in order
first to deal with this latest application. It will be overtaken by my order.
Lastly, at 12:46 today, the claimant sent me what he called "a copy illustrating major
errors and corrections" for me to consider making in my draft judgment. I had asked
for these by 4 pm yesterday, so that I could hand down this judgment in final form at
2 pm today (as stated in the email sending out the draft judgment and in the header to
the draft judgment itself. The defendants complied with my request. The claimant
however did not. Moreover, what the claimant has done is not to provide a list of
corrections, but to interleave his suggested corrections to my draft judgment. Indeed,
many of these are simply comments on, substantial additions to or even rewrites of
portions of my judgment
As a result, what was sent as a 55-page document (in double-spacing) has come back
to me as a 69-page document. I am afraid that the courts cannot operate on the basis
that parties are free to contribute whatever arguments they like whenever they like.
Nor should the opportunity to suggest the correction of spelling and other minor
errors be treated as an opportunity to re-argue the case (as paragraph 21.108 of the
Chancery Guide makes clear), let alone to rewrite the judge's judgment. The rules are
there to provide some certainty to everyone, to promote efficiency, and above all to
give parties the same opportunities, so that the process is fair. I have looked through
the corrections and additions that the claimant suggests, but decline to accede to any
of them. As a result of this extra work, this judgment is being handed down later than
I had intended. I am sorry about that.
30
30
Page 334 of 380
