IN THE COUNTY COURT AT YEOVIL
Case No: F00YE161
BEFORE:
DISTRICT JUDGE BOSMAN
BETWEEN:
The Law Courts
Petters Way
Yeovil
BA20 1SW
Monday, 9 January 2023
BRUCE KERSTIN WEIR
Claimant
- and -
(1) PERSONS UNKNOWN
(2) RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
MR NEWINGTON-BRIDGE appeared on behalf of the Claimant
MR TREVIS appeared on behalf of the Second Defendant
JUDGMENT
(Approved)
Defendants
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol, BS32 4NE
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/ Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance with
relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the case
concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the applicable
information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the internet, including
social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making sure that applicable
restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment.
For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask at the court office or take legal
advice.
1
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 335 of 380
1.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: This is a long-running piece of litigation in relation to
possession of a property. The parties are on the claimants side, trustees of the late J S
Neal deceased and the defendants are principally the second defendant, Mr Rupert St
John Webster; the first defendant referred to as "Persons Unknown" have not engaged
in this litigation. The property in question is called Bondip Farm House, Kingsdon,
Somerton.
2.
3.
4.
Today's hearing was listed pursuant to an order made by District Judge Rahman, that
order was dated 7 November last year, and principally at paragraph 1, stayed execution
of a possession order, pursuant to the second defendant's N244 application. I will deal
with some of the specifics in a moment, but I want to firstly thank both counsel before
the court, Mr Newington-Bridge for the claimant and Mr Trevis pro bono counsel for
the second defendant for your assistance this afternoon.
This case has an exceptionally long history. Today's hearing is the first time I have
dealt with the matter and I did my best this morning in the time I had to read into the
file, which is exceptionally protracted in terms of the material before the court. The
possession order was made as long ago as 16 January 2020 by DJ Walsh sitting at
Yeovil County Court, so almost three years ago. There is a full transcript of the
judgment of the District Judge within one of the bundles the claimants' solicitors have
provided, and those bundles also show that decision was the subject of an unsuccessful
appeal; and there have been many other attempts on the second defendant's side to set
aside or challenge this possession order made nearly three years ago, all of which (save
one) have proven to be unsuccessful. In many instances, learned Circuit Judges have
not only dismissed appeals and other applications by the second defendant, but they
have recorded them as totally without merit. It does appear, however, that no civil
restraint order has been made in respect of the second defendant.
Another unusual feature of this case is that on 23 August 2021, the second defendant,
who remains in the property, was actually evicted from it. That was pursuant to a High
Court writ. However, as later transpired, that writ was erroneous, it was a writ of
control, not a writ of possession, and was fundamentally flawed. At a hearing on 26
2
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 336 of 380
5.
6.
7.
August 2021 before His Honour Judge Cotter QC, as he then was, (he is now a High
Court Judge), it was determined that no valid writ was ever issued and no valid notice
of eviction was ever served. In that order, on 26 August 2021, the second defendant
was restored to the property. So that in itself is
very
unusual.
In addition to the above-mentioned order, at the hearing on 26 August 2021, HHJ
Cotter QC also dismissed the application by the second defendant to set aside his own
order of 21 August 2021 (refusing to stay enforcement of the possession order), and
recorded the second defendant's application as totally without merit. Within that same
order of 26 August 2021, there is also a reference to a claimants' application dated 23
August 2021 for a civil restraint order, which was adjourned with liberty to restore.
From my reading of the papers, the claimants have made no attempt to restore that
application, not that I have seen anyway. The second defendant remains in the property
since the order of 26 August 2021
Subsequent to 26 August 2021, there have been a number of other orders made, some
of which are not particularly important for this afternoon. Both counsel produced very
detailed and helpful skeleton arguments, and spoke to those during the hour hearing we
had earlier this afternoon. The first principal point of challenge by the second
defendant to the current attempt by the claimants to evict him from the property
pursuant to a warrant for possession, (stayed by District Judge Rahman's aforesaid
order) three days before the eviction was due to take place, is based upon Part
83.26(2)(b) of the Civil Procedure Rules. It is not a challenge I have encountered
before, and I have been doing this work as a Judge nearly nine years now, with
time prior to that as a Deputy District Judge.
some
The rule is in front of me in The White Book, 83.26, headed "Warrants of possession".
After sub-rule 1 which says that orders" for recovery of land will be enforceable by
way of a warrant of possession", sub-rule (2) of CPR 83.26 says,
"An application for a warrant of possession
(a) may be made without notice; and
(b) must be made to -
3
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 337 of 380
(i) the County Court hearing centre where the judgment or order which
it is sought to enforce was made; or
(ii) the County Court hearing centre to which the proceedings have
since been transferred.
Also relevant in this case is CPR Part 83.26(11) which provides:
"No warrant of possession against a trespasser may be issued after the expiry of 3
months from the date of the order without permission of the court"
8.
9.
10.
11.
The proceedings, historically, have been in Yeovil and the possession order was made
here on 16 January 2020. The case moved to Bristol, it seems, because of the various
appeals, where they were heard before the civil Circuit Judges in that location. There
was no formal order transferring the case from Yeovil to Bristol.
After all of the appeals were resolved and concluded, they concluded in Bristol, the
claimant's solicitor made an application to the court for permission to issue a warrant.
After three o'clock and during some breaks in other hearings today, I had a chance to
look through the file in relation to this aspect of the case. I have found within the file
an application notice in the Part 23 N244 format from the claimant's solicitor dated 12
May 2022, which sought permission to issue the warrant for possession pursuant to
Rule 83.26(11)
That N244 application had with it a draft order which referred to Yeovil County Court,
but the solicitor (whose name appears to be Scott Bowley) sent it to Bristol County
Court, where it was duly processed, presented in boxwork to District Judge Markland,
who issued the order (in the terms of the draft order) from Bristol, on 30 May 2022.
This order was later amended under the slip rule because of a mis-spelling of the word
"warrant". Arising from this, on 6 October 2022 the Claimants applied in form N325 to
Yeovil with a request for warrant of possession; the warrant no. 1A381149 was issued
by Yeovil, the notice of eviction being dated 20 October 2022, the eviction date being
10 November 2022, stayed 3 days before by DJ Rahman's said order.
The point Mr Trevis argued forcefully earlier on this afternoon is that the court where
enforcement is dealt with must follow the rule (CPR Part 83.26(2)(b)(i) ) and be the
court which made the possession order ie Yeovil, not Bristol. From the claimant's
4
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 338 of 380
perspective, Mr Newington-Bridge sees this as yet another attempt by the second
defendant to further stave off possession from the January 2020 order.
12. Having considered this carefully this afternoon after submissions, I agree with
Mr Trevis that this is a matter of some significance for the purpose of the issuing of a
warrant for possession. The key matter here is not the warrant itself, because that was
sought from Yeovil and issued from Yeovil, but the problem lies with the order that
gave permission for the warrant to be issued ie DJ Markland's order on 30 May 2022
made at Bristol.
13.
The Judge in front of you is familiar with a similar type of permission application in
cases where possession orders are historic, where the original possession order was
made more than six years previously and relatively frequently, the court does see
applications for permission to issue the warrants in respect of possession orders made
more than six years previously.. Those applications are made by claimants under Part
23, and are dealt with on a without notice basis on paper, and then they give rise to the
issuing of the warrants when the appropriate form, N325, is received by the court.
14. Here, the permission application is a different and fairly rare situation, being sought
against a trespasser more than three months after the date of the possession order. Rule
83.26(2)(b)(i) is clear, the warrant of possession has to be issued from the original
court. It follows that where permission to issue the warrant is required under Rule
83.26(11), that must also be obtained from the original court. Mr Bowley sent the
paperwork to the wrong court, he sent it to Bristol and not Yeovil, and unfortunately
Bristol did not pick up on that at the time, and simply put the order before the District
Judge there. The District Judge did not pick up the point either. This is not a criticism,
it is just an observation, it is a very unusual point that Mr Trevis has spotted within the
Rules. However, he has correctly pointed out that the enforcement process must be
through the court which made the possession order. The permission which was
required in this instance for the issuing of the N325 did not come from this court,
therefore the challenge is well founded on that point.
5
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 339 of 380
15.
16.
17.
As far as other matters mentioned by Mr Trevis today, the interesting arguments
referred to in his skeleton argument, these are potentially substantive challenges and
are not appropriate for today's hearing. They may arise in the future. I reserve
comments specifically in relation to them, but I would simply say that the possession
order has already been appealed, and that those appeals and challenges have been
dismissed and recorded as totally without merit.
For today's purposes, the decision is based upon the procedural deficiency, but
nevertheless the Rules are there to be complied with and followed, particularly when
enforcement is concerned is as follows. The warrant for possession 1A381149 which
is presently stayed pursuant to District Judge Rahman's order is dismissed. However,
also to move matters forward and having regard to the fact that the claimant's solicitors
did make the proper application back in May last year, albeit sent it to the wrong court,
and the court itself did not pick up on the point either as I have just said. I am, as part
of today's order within my case management powers, and having regard to the
overriding objective to deal with matters expeditiously and at minimal cost, going to
give the claimant permission from this court to issue a warrant for possession pursuant
to Rule 83.26(11). That will obviate the need for the claimant to file a new N244
application.
The claimant will of course, for the avoidance of doubt, still need to apply to Yeovil for
a warrant on form N325, which will then be issued from this court, and the second
defendant will then have his right to apply in form N244 to set aside, suspend or stay
that warrant of possession, if he chooses to do so. That lies ahead of us.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 340 of 380
Epiq Europe Ltd hereby certify that the above is an accurate and complete record of the
proceedings or part thereof.
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
This transcript has been approved by the Judge
7
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 341 of 380
Neutral Citation Number: [2023] EWHC 1034 (Ch)
Case No: CH-2020-000194
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
BUSINESS AND PROPERTY COURTS OF ENGLAND AND WALES
PROPERTY, TRUSTS AND PROBATE LIST (ChD)
BEFORE:
MR JUSTICE MILES
Royal Courts of Justice
Rolls Buildings
7 Fetter Lane
LONDON
EC4A 1NL
Friday, 10 March 2023
BETWEEN:
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
Claimant/Respondent
-and-
(1) JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY
(2) ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT
Defendants/Applicants
MR R TREVIS appeared on behalf of the Claimant/Respondent
MR O WOODING appeared on behalf of the Defendants/Applicants
APPROVED
JUDGMENT
1
Page 342 of 380
MR JUSTICE MILES:
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
This is an application by Mr Penley and a successor firm, known as WSP (short for
Winterbottom, Smith, Penley LLP), which succeeded to a firm of which Mr Penley
was a partner.
They apply for the extension of an order made by Morgan J on 10 February 2021.
That was an extended civil restraint order directed to Rupert St John Webster. It
prevented him from issuing any new proceedings against Mr Penley or Ms Ashcroft
arising out of "any dispute with them or concerned or connected with events which
occurred in relation to The Priory, Ash Priors, Taunton, Somerset, TA4 3ND or
against any solicitor/barrister associate or anyone else connected with the said matters
in the High Court of Justice or in any County Court in England and Wales, or issuing
any application, appeal or other process in this action or any other action in the High
Court of Justice or in any County Court in England and Wales concerning any of the
same matters" without first obtaining permission in accordance with the order.
By the order I was appointed as the primary judge to deal with any application made
by Mr Webster for permission.
Mr Webster sought permission to appeal the order of Morgan J, but that application
was refused.
The order of Morgan J was the third civil restraint order that has been made against
Mr Webster relating in broad terms to the same matters.
It is unnecessary to go into the background to the underlying disputes, save to say that
they ultimately concern or arise out of the will of Valerie St John Webster and the
consequences of that will, which included the appointment of Mr Penley and
Ms Ashcroft as executors of an estate which related in various respects to The Priory.
As it was put by Mr Trevis, who has appeared for Mr Webster in this hearing,
Mr Webster feels aggrieved that he was originally unlawfully evicted from The
Priory. Mr Trevis also explained that having left The Priory, Mr Webster moved to
another property which is known as The Bondip Farmhouse and there are currently
proceedings on foot relating to that property including an application by the trustees
of the estate to evict Mr Webster from that property. I mention this because it features
in some of the history.
Although Mr Trevis took me through the history relating to the matter before the order
of Morgan J, it seems to me that the relevant events, for present purposes, relate to
events which took place subsequent to that order.
Just before the order of Morgan J, Mr Webster commenced professional negligence
proceedings against Mr Penley and WSP. Those proceedings related, in very broad
terms, to allegations that Mr Penley or WSP had failed to act properly in the advice
they had given some years previously concerning the family estate and as part of that,
in relation to The Priory.
2
Page 343 of 380
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
The defendants applied to strike out the proceedings or for summary judgment and a
hearing was listed for 2 December 2021. On 2 December 2021 Mr Webster applied
to adjourn that hearing. He also applied to me for permission to make the adjournment
application, as it fell within the scope of Morgan J's order. I gave that permission.
HHJ Paul Matthews dismissed the application for an adjournment and then went on
to hear the strike out application. Mr Webster applied for permission to appeal against
the refusal of the decision of HHJ Matthews to grant the adjournment, and that was
rejected by Asplin LJ.
HHJ Matthews gave judgment on 15 December 2021. He made an order on 23
December 2021, giving effect to his judgment. He ordered that the proceedings be
struck out and that summary judgment be given. At paragraph 6 of his order he
recorded that the claim was totally without merit.
When dealing with questions of costs, HHJ Matthews noted that Mr Webster's
obsession with the litigation was not normal, that he was unable to process his
continued failure in every attempt he takes to dress his complaint in different clothes,
as in any way the result of the lack of merit, whether procedural or substantive, his
behaviour in this latest round has, the judge said, been very far out of the norm. The
judge also noted that Mr Webster is not naïve or ignorant and is in fact a very capable,
experienced litigant.
While those comments were made in relation to costs, it does seem to me that they
have a bearing on the view that HHJ Matthews took of Mr Webster's approach, which
he described as obsessive.
Mr Webster sought permission to appeal from the order of 23 December 2021. On
18 May 2022 Lewison LJ refused permission.
In May 2022, Mr Webster applied to me for permission under the ECRO to apply for
a certificate pursuant to section 12 of the Administration of Justice Act 1969 from the
decision of HHJ Matthews to bring a leapfrog appeal to the Supreme Court. I refused
the application for permission to make an application for such a certificate and said in
my reasons that the application was totally without merit.
Later in May 2022, Mr Webster made a further application. There was some
confusion in my mind about the nature of the application, but Mr Webster explained
that he was seeking a certificate pursuant to section 12 of the Administration of Justice
Act 1969 for leave to bring an appeal to the Supreme Court from my decision of 6
May 2022 and that he was seeking permission to make that application. I dismissed
that application by order of 19 May 2022 and certified that it was totally without merit.
I have already mentioned that there is litigation concerning a property where it appears
Mr Webster still resides, called Bondip Farmhouse. That litigation, again, appears to
raise or involve questions about the will of Valerie St John Webster. There have been
various orders made in those proceedings to which Mr Penley and WSP are not
parties. An order for possession was made in January 2020. In February 2021
HHJ Matthews made an order refusing permission to appeal against the order for
possession. He certified the application for permission to appeal as totally without
merit. In his reasons, he referred to the apparent overlap in the arguments being run
3
Page 344 of 380
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
by Mr Webster in the Bondip Farmhouse proceedings and in the proceedings which
had been brought against Mr Penley relating to The Priory. In particular,
HHJ Matthews pointed out that there were various contentions concerning what had
happened to properties previously belonging to the Webster family and that these
included allegations concerning The Priory. The order of HHJ Matthews of
1 February 2021 was taken into account as one of the totally without merit orders by
Morgan J on 10 February 2021.
As I have said, neither Mr Penley nor WSP are parties to the proceedings concerning
Bondip Farmhouse and they are not privy to all of the steps that have been taken in
those proceedings. Nonetheless, Mr Webster has, since about July 2022, consistently
copied the solicitors acting for WSP, in particular Ms Creech, to correspondence
concerning both Bondip Farmhouse and making allegations in relation to The Priory
or the matters giving rise to Mr Webster's grievances in that regard. The
correspondence in question in part consists of actual and proposed submissions to the
UN Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities. It refers in terms to The
Priory which is described there as "the Taunton property". It also raises complaints
about the way that the properties in the family estate were dealt with and makes
complaints about the treatment of the will of Valerie St John Webster.
-
The correspondence included emails being sent to the Registry of the Supreme Court.
These communications included a draft order being sent to Yeovil County Court
which would have given, if it had ever been made, permission to persons unknown
who include, it seems, Mr Webster, to apply to the UK Supreme Court and for WSP
to be joined to the application. In November 2022, Mr Webster sent another draft
order which is headed "In the Supreme Court of the United Kingdom and in the
United Nations," which contains a series of proposed orders, including orders
concerning the estate of Valentine St John Webster. These include that a will of 2000
of Valerie Webster be declared valid and that another will of 2006 of Valerie Webster
be declared invalid. It also includes proposed orders concerning title in respect of
The Priory. Paragraph 7 of the order, if made, would state that costs and aggravated
and exemplary damages of £7 million should be payable in 28 days by WSP and their
“representing solicitors,” who include their current solicitors, to be distributed equally
between two family trusts and any “purchasers” - which would seem to be a reference
to purchasers of the property. Mr Webster has also, it appears, provided a detailed
and lengthy submission to the UN committee complaining about various decisions
and orders of the court.
Against this background the applicants seek an extension of the existing civil restraint
order.
I should say that I made an order on 10 February 2023 extending the civil restraint
order made by Morgan J until 7 April 2023. That was done in order to give
Mr Webster the opportunity to appear by counsel and it was understood that I would
approach the matter on the basis of the application and decide whether further to
extend the civil restraint order.
The court's power to make and extend civil restraint orders is found in CPR 3.11. That
provides that a Practice Direction may set out the circumstances in which the court
has the power to make a civil restraint order against a party to proceedings. The
procedure where a party applies for a civil restraint order against another party and
4
Page 345 of 380
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
the consequences of the court making a civil restraint order. Practice Direction 3C
then sets out the detailed requirements for the making and extension of civil restraint
orders.
Paragraph 3.1 of the PD covers extended civil restraint orders. It provides that an
extended civil restraint order may be made by (1) a judge of the Court of Appeal (2)
a judge of the High Court or (3) a designated civil judge although appointed deputy
in the County Court, where a party has persistently issued claims or made applications
which are totally without merit.
Paragraph 3.9 states that an extended civil restraint order will be made for a specified
period not exceeding three years.
Paragraph 3.10 states as follows:
"The court may extend the duration of an extended civil restraint
order if it considers it appropriate to do so but it must not be
extended for a period greater than three years on any given
occasion."
It was common ground that for the purposes of paragraph 3.1, a party will only be
treated as having persistently issued claims or made applications which are totally
without merit if the party has done so on at least three occasions.
Mr Trevis for Mr Webster submitted that the power to extend an ECRO under
paragraph 3.10 requires the court to be satisfied that the criteria in paragraph 3.1 are
satisfied. He said that an order extending an ECRO under 3.10 is itself a civil restraint
order and, reading Practice Direction 3C together with CPR 3.11, the power to extend
must be treated as arising and arising only under Rule 3.1.
Counsel for the applicants, Mr Wooding, referred me to a number of authorities for
the proposition that the test under paragraph 3.10 was distinct from the requirements
of paragraph 3.1. He said that 3.1 was concerned with the imposition of an order
whereas paragraph 3.10 was concerned with the extension of an order.
There have been a number of cases in which the distinction between the test in
paragraph 3.10 and the test in paragraph 3.1 has been drawn. These include Ashcroft
v Webster [2017] EWHC 887 (Ch), AEY v AL (Family Proceedings Extension of Civil
Restraint Order) [2020] EWHC 3539 (Fam) and Hurst v Green [2022] EWHC 2895
(Ch). The position is also explained in note 3.11.7 in the 2022 edition of the White
Book which quotes from a decision of the Court of Appeal in Chief Constable of Avon
and Somerset v Gray [2019] EWCA Civ 1675. In that case the Court of Appeal
approved the decision of the first instance judge. He drew a distinction between the
test imposed for making an order in the first place and the test when the court is asked
to extend a civil restraint order. The test for the latter is whether the court considers
it appropriate to extend the order. The Court of Appeal approved the following
statement:
"That test must be read in the light of the criteria for imposing a
GCRO in the first place since a restriction upon the party's right
to bring litigation is the same during the original term of the
5
Page 346 of 380
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
GCRO or during its extension. In briefest outline, the question
either on an original application for a GCRO or on an application
for an extension, is whether an order (or its extension) is
necessary in order (a) to protect litigants from vexatious
proceedings against them and/or (b) to protect the finite resources
of the court from vexatious waste. This question is to be answered
having full regard to the impact of any proposed order upon the
party to be restrained. The main difference between an original
application for a GCRO and an application for an extension is that
on an application for an extension, the respondent will have been
restrained from bringing vexatious proceedings during the period
of the existing GCRO."
That case concerned a GCRO but the same reasoning, it seems to me, applies to an
ECRO. It shows that the same test of necessity applies whether one is considering the
imposition of the order or its extension. However, the other criteria set out in the
Practice Direction, which are thresholds for the imposition of an order, are not to be
read into paragraph 3.10. So, for instance, there is the requirement in paragraph 3.1
that the party has persistently issued claims or other applications which are totally
without merit. That requirement is not to be read into paragraph 3.10.
Nonetheless, the overall test to be applied is whether an order is necessary in order to
protect litigants in vexatious proceedings and/or to protect the finite resources of the
court from vexatious waste.
In any event the point is academic here as there have in fact been three totally without
merit certifications on orders made since the order of Morgan J. The first was the
order of HHJ Matthews of 23 December 2021 and the second and third were my
orders of 6 May and 19 May 2022.
The question is therefore whether in the circumstances it is necessary to extend the
existing order in order to protect the applicants from vexatious proceedings against
them and/or to protect the finite resources from the court from vexatious waste.
The orders which I have just referred to, namely the order of 23 December 2021 and
my two orders of May 2022, are themselves, it seems to me, evidence that Mr Webster
is not prepared to behave like a normal litigant. I agree with the comment of HHJ
Matthews that he has an obsessive approach to these matters and is not prepared to
accept orders of the court which have gone against him.
On top of this, the correspondence which has taken place since July 2022 shows that
he has not been prepared to accept the orders of the court in relation to The Priory or
the family estates. He has provided a series of draft orders, the latest of which would
result in essentially undoing the many orders of the court which have been made over
well over a decade - and which would indeed involve a payment of many millions of
damages by a number of solicitors' firms, including the applicants for this extension.
Mr Trevis explained to me that Mr Webster feels aggrieved that he considers that he
was unlawfully evicted from The Priory and that no valid possession orders were ever
made and that he has drawn together the litigation about The Priory with the litigation
6
Page 347 of 380
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
concerning Bondip Farmhouse in his mind, and that that is no doubt why he has
knitted the two things together in the correspondence.
That may well be an explanation, but it gives no grounds for confidence that
Mr Webster has come close to accepting the position in relation to The Priory. He
has continued to correspond with the solicitors for Mr Penley and WSP, has continued
to send them material which makes allegations of professional negligence and
wrongdoing against them and which contains, albeit indirectly, threats that they
should have to pay very large amounts of damages. Mr Trevis says that there is a
difference between making such threats and bringing legal proceedings, but these are
matters which have to be dealt with by the solicitors and in my judgment there is a
very serious concern that if Mr Webster is not restrained from bringing proceedings
by an extended ECRO, some of these grievances and complaints will find their way
into yet further litigation. It seems to me that, for these reasons, there is a real and
serious risk that unless some filter is put in place, further resources of these applicants
and the court will be wasted by unmeritorious and vexatious proceedings.
I balance that finding against the consequences for Mr Webster of a continuation of
the order of Morgan J. It restrains his access to the courts. But it is also important to
bear in mind that the order does not operate as a complete bar to the bringing of
proceedings or applications. It is open to Mr Webster to apply to the court for
permission to bring proceedings or applications and if they are properly arguable and
are not totally without merit, the court will give permission. That indeed happened in
December 2021 when I granted permission to Mr Webster to apply to adjourn the
strike out hearing. It is a qualified constraint and in the circumstances appears to me
to be a proportionate one.
Mr Trevis, as a fallback submission, said that if an extended order is to be made it
should be for a period less than the maximum of three years now available under the
Practice Direction. It seems to me that there is some force in that submission: the
question whether there should be a yet further extension hereafter can be tested by
what actually happens in the future. Mr Webster may at some stage become
reconciled to the orders that have been made by the court over many years and cease
to challenge them through yet more litigation; and it may be that in those
circumstances there would be no justification for a further order. In framing a
proportionate and appropriate response, the court must of course consider the length
of any extension.
It seems to me that an appropriate period would be to extend the order of Morgan J
for a further period of two years from today. That means that there will have been an
extension for more than two years in total, given my earlier order. But any court
assessing the position at the end of that period will no doubt take into account the
events between now and the expiry of that period.
So taking all of these matters in the round, the conclusion I have reached is that the
order of Morgan J of 10 February 2021 should be extended for a further period of two
years from today's date.
I will make an order for Mr Webster to pay the costs of the application. The costs are
to be assessed on the standard basis. That requires the costs to be both reasonable and
proportionate. I am a little troubled by the overall amount of the costs bill as it seems
7
Page 348 of 380
to me that this was a comparatively straightforward application albeit it has taken over
half a day. It also seems to me that Mr Webster has succeeded in persuading me that
the length of the extension should not be the full period sought by the applicants and
that some element of the costs should be reflected in that degree of success on the part
of Mr Webster. It also looks to me as though at least some of the work done on
documents may well have predated the application for the continuation of the ECRO
itself, so for example, there are elements for considering the section 12 applications
and other steps and it looks as though the amounts spent on the application itself are
rather more limited. Doing the best I can and including the need for such costs to be
maintained at a proportionate level, it seems to me that the amount that should be
awarded is £14,000.
8
Page 349 of 380
