IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
Neutral citation no: [2013] EWHC 1316 (Ch)
BETWEEN
Claim Number: HC 09 C 01570
HIGH
ESTY'S
DISTRICT
HER
COURT
REGISTRY
22 MAY 2013
BIRMINGHAM
Before: HHJ PURLE QC
The Rolls Building
OF
7 Rolls Buildings
Fetter Lane
London EC4A 1NL
JUSTICE
22nd May 2013
RUPERT JOLYON ST. JOHN WEBSTER
- and -
(1) ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT
(2) JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY
(3) JENNIFER ST. JOHN WEBSTER
(4) IAN RORY ST. JOHN WEBSTER
(5) ANTONIA MARY SLOANE
Claimant
Defendants
Edward Hewitt instructed by Beviss & Beckingsale appeared for the Claimant
Leslie Blohm QC instructed by Clarke Willmott appeared for the First and Second
Defendants
The Third, Fourth and Fifth Defendants appeared in person
I DIRECT THAT PURSUANT TO CPR PD 39A PARA 6.1 NO OFFICIAL
SHORTHAND NOTE SHALL BE TAKEN OF THIS JUDGMENT AND THAT
COPIES OF THIS VERSION AS HANDED DOWN MAY BE TREATED AS
AUTHENTIC.
HHJ PURLE QC:
Cale
1
Page 16 of 380
APPROVED JUDGMENT
JUDGE PURLE QC:
1. This is a family dispute. In the course of the trial, family members were known by
their given names, and I shall, without intending any disrespect, refer to them in the
same way in this judgment.
2. Valentine St. John Webster ("Valentine") died on 16th September 2006 of motor
neurone disease aged 64. He was the elder son of Antony and Valerie. He had one
brother, Rory (the Fourth Defendant) and two sisters, Virginia (the First Defendant)
and Antonia (the Fifth Defendant). He was also the father of Rupert (the Claimant),
and the husband of Jennifer (the Third Defendant). Valentine and Jennifer also had
two daughters, Letitia and Arabella.
3. Rupert, as administrator of Valentine's estate, seeks to establish for the estate
ownership by proprietary estoppel of property in Ash Priors, Taunton, Somerset
known as the Priory Farmhouse ("the farmhouse"), together with two adjoining fields
("the two fields") marked 8333 and 8622 on a coloured plan adduced in evidence.
The farmhouse and two fields once formed part of a larger estate known as Priory
Farm. This was originally purchased by Antony in 1950, and then consisted of
approximately 44 acres of land and eight cottages.
4. Valentine served in the Royal Navy from 1959 until he retired in July 1989. He
married Jennifer in 1970. Rupert was born in 1972.
5. In 1965, Valerie purchased Farmhouse Cottage and Cottage-on-the-Common (hitherto
part of the estate) from Antony. Rory subsequently bought a 50% interest from
Valerie in 1978.
6. In 1971, Valerie purchased a nearby property known as Monks Walk. She sold it
(though retaining some land) to Valentine in December 1972. From no later than the
early 1980s, Valentine and Jennifer used part of it as a weekend retreat (living mainly
in Bath) until moving there in around 1985. Valerie gave the retained land to
Valentine in November 1990.
7. On 3rd November 1987, Antony conveyed other estate cottages to Valerie (Lavender
Cottage, Honeysuckle Cottage and Priory Cottage).
8. In 1989, following Valentine's retirement from the Navy, he and Jennifer started a
business called Taunton Trees through Taunton Trees Limited. This was never
notably successful.
9. On 26th January 1990, Valentine's company, Valentine Webster Limited bought from
Antony for £100,000 part of the estate known as Priory Barn. £50,000 of that was
raised on a first mortgage; the other £50,000 was left outstanding on a second
mortgage. There were other mortgages too, both on the Barn and Monks Walk, and
the financial burden proved too great. Valentine had the idea that development of the
Barn would make untold amounts of money. The reality was that the development
proved very problematical and expensive, and he was saddled with what proved to be
2
Page 17 of 380
unmanageable debt. A possession order was made in respect of Monks Walk in
favour of the mortgagee in early 1992. The mortgagee subsequently took possession
of and sold Monks Walk, and Valentine moved into the Barn with Jennifer.
10. On 6th April 1992, Antony made a will (which was his last will) creating (if Valerie
survived him, which she did) a nil-rate band discretionary trust for the benefit of
Valerie and his issue still alive at his death or born within 80 years, leaving a legacy
of £5,000 to Virginia and leaving the residue of his estate to (in the events which
happened) Valerie. Valerie also made a will in mirror-image terms.
11. On the same date, Antony transferred the farmhouse and the two fields to himself and
Valerie as tenants in common in equal shares. Since 6th April 1992, the two fields
(8333 and 8622) have been treated as annexed to the farmhouse.
12. The remaining land shown on the coloured plan originally forming part of Priory
Farm was referred to throughout the trial as "the Agricultural Land". Originally, the
pleaded claim extended to the Agricultural Land as well, but this wider claim was
abandoned. In addition, there were a number of cottages on the estate.
13. On 25th April 1992, Antony gave the Agricultural Land and various cottages
(including some previously given) to Valerie.
14. On 27th April 1992, Valerie created a discretionary trust of the Agricultural Land,
Priory Cottages, Honeysuckle Cottage, Lavender Cottage (since sold) and her 50%
interest in Cottage-on-the-Common and Farmhouse Cottage. Virginia, Rory and
Antonia were appointed trustees. Those three and Valentine became discretionary
beneficiaries.
15. In December 1992, Valentine became bankrupt, as (much later) did Antonia (in May
1995) and Simon Sloane, her husband (in August 1995), now deceased. Later still, in
July 2005, Rory and his wife, Inga, were declared bankrupt.
16. Priory Barn was repossessed and sold by the mortgagee in October 1995. Valentine
and Jennifer had been living there. Following the repossession, they moved into the
farmhouse. Antony and Valerie both lived there at the time, as did Antonia and Simon
Sloane.
17. Antony died on 10th February 1996 aged 87. His will trust came into effect
comprising a 50% interest in the farmhouse and two fields. Probate of his will was
granted to Virginia and the Second Defendant, Mr Penley on 13th May 1996. Mr
Penley was a solicitor. Either he or his father had acted (though not exclusively) for
various family members over many years.
18. As already mentioned, Valentine died on 16th September 2006. Valerie died on 21st
August 2007.
19. The estoppel claim which Rupert now asserts for Valentine's estate was not made
during Valentine's or Valerie's lifetime, and their live evidence is not available. This
is therefore a case in which, unusually, neither the person claiming the benefit of the
estoppel nor the persons said to be estopped is around to make or defend the claim.
3
Page 18 of 380
20.
Moreover, whilst the claim is advanced by Rupert for the estate, the sole beneficiary
is Jennifer, who has chosen not to bring these proceedings herself, but instead
supported the appointment of Rupert as personal representative in her place: see, for
the relevant history, the decision of Nicholas Strauss QC at an earlier stage of this
case reported at [2012] 1 WLR 1309, in particular at [17].
Rupert also challenges the validity of the last will of his grandmother, Valerie, dated
24th May 2006 ("the 2006 Will") on the grounds of want of knowledge and approval.
There is also a pleaded case of undue influence, which was abandoned before the trial
began.
21. In consequence of the alleged invalidity of the 2006 Will, Rupert contends that an
earlier will of 16th November 2000, together with a codicil of 30th May 2002 ("the
earlier will and codicil") should be admitted to probate. No-one suggests that the
earlier will and codicil were invalid. If, however, the 2006 Will is valid, the earlier
will and codicil were revoked. The earlier will and codicil left any interest she had in
The Priory (i.e. her half share in the farmhouse and two fields) to Valentine. She then
left other cottages to her other children, though she appears to have overlooked that
these were already within the 1992 Trust mentioned in paragraph 14 above.
PROPRIETARY ESTOPPEL
22. There was no serious dispute as to the principles to be applied. The estoppel in this
case is said to arise from various representations or promises made over the years,
apparently starting in the 70s, by Antony and Valerie to the effect that Ash Priors
would come to Valentine. It is also said that Valentine relied detrimentally upon the
representations or promises.
23. I say straightaway that I reject this claim. In my judgment, no representation or
promise to the effect suggested by Rupert was ever made. Nor, if I am wrong about
that, was there detrimental reliance.
24. One immediate difficulty facing this claim is that the representations, as asserted,
relate not only to the farmhouse but to the Agricultural land as well. Though this
wider claim has been abandoned, the evidence (such as it was) was assembled on the
broader basis. Given that any representation, to found an estoppel, must be
sufficiently clear, or "clear enough" (as it has been put) this is an unpromising starting
point.
25. Jennifer's attitude to this litigation was made plain by her in the witness box - she
hates it and wishes the claim had never been brought. She made two somewhat
contradictory witness statements, one appearing to support Rupert's claim, the other
not. I have no doubt that she was trying to achieve the impossible of keeping all her
children happy, and I have to approach those written statements with appropriate
circumspection. In fact, her oral evidence, as given, was measured, sincere, and
dignified. It did not however do much to advance Rupert's case. This is perhaps
unsurprising, as the relevant events are all distant in time. I have derived much
greater assistance from contemporaneous documents.
4
Page 19 of 380
26. I also found the evidence of Mr Penley very helpful. He was a classic example of a
trusted family solicitor, who was sensitive to the dynamics (actual and potential)
within the family whenever ideas were raised with him. He gave evidence cautiously
and carefully, assisted by the contemporaneous record.
27. Rupert's evidence, extensive though it was, was not particularly helpful, so far as it
was based on his own recollections or recollections of what he had been told by
Valentine. Rupert appears to have developed an obsession with this case, and the
family history underpinning it, which is all-consuming. I did feel that, though he was
plainly honest, this could affect his judgment.
28. Given the passage of time, the evidence of other family members and acquaintances
was not especially helpful on the estoppel claim. What did emerge very clearly from
the evidence, however, was the fact that Valentine held the strong conviction that as
the eldest son he was entitled at least morally to control and (ultimately) inherit the
Priory as his birthright. That conviction was not, however, shared by other family
members, and Valentine knew this. During the course of the tax planning exercise
undertaken in 1992, Valentine's conviction was expressly rejected by Valerie at a
family meeting in the presence of solicitors (fully minuted) on 25th February 1992.
Notably, Valentine did not rely upon any representation or promise at this stage, only
a conviction of his prior entitlement as the first born son.
29. That said, there is little doubt that the hope was expressed from time to time, in
different ways, especially by Valerie, that Valentine might inherit or live at Ash
Priors, or the farmhouse. But there was nothing amounting to a commitment to
ensure that any part of Ash Priors, or the farmhouse, or the two fields, would become
his. Moreover, after the 1992 tax planning exercise, Mr Penley was very much
against the taking of any step that might imperil the tax efficiency of the structure he
had helped to put in place, and his advice was heeded.
30. The 1992 tax planning exercise resulted in the farmhouse and the two fields being
separated from the rest and (more significantly) being split between Antony and
Valerie as tenants in common, rather than being settled upon or left to Valentine.
Valentine's interest was, prospectively, as one of the discretionary beneficiaries of the
Will Trusts under the two wills executed at that time. That structure is wholly
inconsistent with the estoppel claim. For that claim to succeed, I must find that
Antony and Valerie did one thing, and told Valentine something different. Not only
am I not persuaded that that was the case, but it is clear that all family members in
fact knew what occurred in 1992, and (in due course) that Antony's will trust duly
took effect in 1996. There was no challenge to the Will, and the estoppel claim was
not made until after Valerie's death.
31. Even if I concentrate on the position before 1992, there is virtually no evidence that
Antony (or for that matter Valerie) made any promise or relevant representation to
Valentine, and previous wills do not suggest that Valentine had a special position or
entitlement as elder son. I am not aware of any earlier will where Valentine took the
farmhouse, or the two fields, to the exclusion of all others. He is unlikely therefore to
have been told anything to foster his belief of a superior entitlement.
5
Page 20 of 380
32. There is some tenuous evidence that Valentine was offered Ash Priors when he was
17, but, as he chose a career in the Navy instead, it is impossible to regard that as a
commitment, and certainly not one which he acted upon. The offer presupposed that
he would work the farm. A similar offer, also not taken up, appears to have been
made to Rory at one time.
33. When eventually, Valentine did come to Ash Priors from Bath, that was into Monks
Walk, which Valerie initially bought and then sold to Valentine though giving him
some land later. In addition, the acquisition of Priory Barn was on commercial, albeit
favourable, terms, and not in response to any commitment. Why, I ask myself, should
the position be different in relation to the farmhouse and two fields? I can think of no
reason, and repeat again the point that the separation of the farmhouse and fields in
1992 was part of a structured series of transactions inconsistent with the estoppel
claim.
34. Valentine and Jennifer moved into the farmhouse when the Priory Barn project turned
into a disaster. In reality, they had nowhere else to go. This was a generous act on
the part of Antony and Valerie (recorded in Valerie's letter of 31st October 1995) but
not wholly unexpected of caring, conscientious parents.
35. Valentine and Jennifer had over time put considerable amounts of money and effort
into Monks Walk and Priory Barn, but that cannot amount to detrimental reliance
affecting the ownership of the farmhouse and two fields, as Valentine came to own
both Monks Walk and Priory Barn. The money and effort thus expended was
referable to that ownership. The fact that the fruits of those endeavours were lost does
not affect this conclusion. There is evidence also that Valerie may have kept some of
the rent referable to one of Valentine's cottages but this cannot be used as a
foundation for ownership of some other part of Ash Priors.
36. Valentine and Jennifer also expended money and effort connected with their living at
the farmhouse and (initially) working the farm, though the farmland has for the most
part been tenanted. This is summarised in part in a letter Jennifer put before me of
11th February 2013. The expenditure smacks of the sort of expenditure someone
living rent free (as Valentine and Jennifer did) would bear, and of mutual family
support. The same can be said of fencing works Valentine appears to have
undertaken. One of the fields was worked by Valentine and Valerie in connection
with the trees business for Taunton Trees Limited, which was carried on for their
benefit. Valentine also bred pigs and the like, again for his own benefit, though this
business, as well as ruining much of the grass around the farmhouse, generated much
hostility locally, not least from Jennifer. I did not gain the impression that any of
Valentine's business activities were conspicuously successful at this or any other
time. I think he probably had trouble adjusting to civilian life after his naval career.
None of this activity indicates to me that Valentine or Jennifer were to have an
interest in the farmhouse and two fields, and I regard none of it as detrimental reliance
even if there were some underlying promise or representation which has eluded me.
37. In early correspondence following Valerie's death, a claim was made on 19th June
2008 by Rupert's present solicitors (acting then for both Jennifer and Rupert) to the
effect that Jennifer (who has continued to live at the farmhouse though sometimes
away caring for her mother) might have acquired some rights, but the present claim
6
Page 21 of 380
was not advanced. Nothing was said about Valentine (or Jennifer, for that matter)
ever having had the benefit of a relevant promise or representation. The omission of
any mention of such a promise or representation is telling. In my judgment, there
never was any such promise or representation.
38. An attendance note of Mr Penley dated 23rd September 2006 records a conversation
with Virginia, who referred to certain assurances having been given by Valerie to
Valentine. The note records that it was being suggested that Valentine's wife/children
should have the benefit of these. In her oral evidence, Virginia did not accept that she
had attributed these assurances to Valerie. I am inclined to the view that she probably
did, but it may be that the source of the allegation was Valentine, not Valerie. I
cannot place sensible reliance on this episode, which occurred at a time of high
emotion shortly after Valentine's death. I return to this episode and the
correspondence leading up to it later when considering the validity of the 2006 Will.
39. In the circumstances, the proprietary estoppel claim fails. A defence of laches was
also advanced, which it is unnecessary for me to consider, as the claim does not get
that far.
WANT OF KNOWLEDGE AND APPROVAL
40. I turn to consider the challenge to Valerie's last will.
41. Both parties agreed that the relevant principles are accurately set out in the decision of
Wharton v Bancroft [2011] EWHC 3250 (Ch) at [27]-[28]. Ultimately, the burden is
on the person propounding the will to demonstrate its validity, though this may be
assisted by established presumptions in an appropriate case.
42. In the present case, I am, irrespective of any presumption, satisfied from the evidence
I have read and heard that Valerie knew and approved of the contents of the 2006
Will.
43. The principal evidence which leads me to that conclusion is the evidence of Mr
Penley, who was the solicitor who took instructions for and drafted the 2006 Will. I
have not looked at his evidence alone, however, but have considered all the relevant
evidence in the round.
44. His initial instructions came from Rory, who had been asked by Valerie, his mother,
to arrange for the new will. At that time, there was a real prospect (as in fact
occurred) of Valentine predeceasing Valerie. Valentine was much favoured by
Valerie. She thought he was very handsome, and that this in some way increased his
claims on her bounty.
45. The instructions to Mr Penley, which he carried out, were that Valentine should have
75% of her outstanding half share in the farmhouse and two fields if he survived her.
If he did not, the half share was to be divided equally four ways between her 3
remaining children and Valentine's issue.
7
Page 22 of 380
46. Mr Penley gave effect to those instructions. The Will as drafted by him was not
especially complicated, and Valerie was well aware of her half interest in the
farmhouse and two fields.
47. There is a detailed attendance note of the occasion upon which the new Will was
explained and executed. Virginia and Rory were also there, though they offered to
leave, Valerie preferring them to remain.
48. The attendance note in material part reads (with typographical corrections):
"JFP [Mr Penley] said that the clause relating to [Valerie's] half share in The
Priory was conditional on Valentine surviving by 28 days. [Valerie]
confirmed that if Valentine did not survive her she would not want his estate
to take a larger share of The Priory than that going to her other children. JFP
took her through the remainder of the clause including the provisions dealing
with the disposal of the 75% and the 25%.
JFP explained that if Valentine did not survive then [Valerie's] share of the
Priory would be dealt with under the clause dealing with the remainder of her
estate.
JFP then went through the clause dealing with residue..."
49. Mr Penley confirmed that this was an accurate attendance note. He also explained in
an affidavit that he made on 1st June 2006 that he explained the Will in considerable
detail including taking her through the Will line by line for the relevant clauses. I
accept that evidence. No-one has challenged Valerie's capacity at this time. That is,
of course, a separate question of whether she knew and approved of the contents of
this Will. The evidence before me was that Valerie not merely had sufficient capacity
but was generally in full possession of her mental faculties right up to the day she
died', despite her great age (98 when she made the 2006 Will). She was a strong-
willed lady perfectly capable of making up her own mind. Moreover, the same
attendance note reveals that she raised with Mr Penley intelligent questions
concerning tax penalties.
50. I have no doubt that Valerie knew and approved of the contents of the 2006 Will. It
makes no difference that the instructions to Mr Penley came from Rory. Rory was her
son and she trusted him to pass on her wishes. Likewise, it makes no difference that
Rory and Virginia were both present. That was Valerie's wish. What matters is that
the contents were fully explained to her, and that she understood the Will, which I am
satisfied she did. The Will was a rational response to the dilemma that Valentine
might well die before her.
51. It is said that she gave different instructions to another solicitor, Mrs Booth, not long
previously (initially in mid to late 2005, and then again in early 2006). Mrs Booth
declined to carry out those instructions, as she did not feel it appropriate for Valerie to
be completing any fresh documentation in view of her great age and current health.
'I leave aside the period immediately following Valentine's death, dealt with later.
8
Page 23 of 380
As capacity is not challenged before me, this point is of minimal relevance. The fact
that she made different dispositions in the events which happened is not that unusual
or remarkable. Old people commonly do change their wills. Anyone can change their
mind from one month to the next, or even from one day to the next.
52. On 22nd September 2006, shortly after Valentine's death but before his funeral,
Virginia wrote to Mr Penley saying that Valerie did not wish "Jenny and her family's
share" to be reduced to equal shares. The letter continued to say that Valerie always
agreed that "Jenny" (i.e. Jennifer) should have half the Priory, and she was still saying
that. A note in Valerie's handwriting said that she wanted Valentine's share of the
estate to go to "Jenny" (i.e. Jennifer).
53. By another letter also bearing the date 22nd September 2006, Virginia modified her
position, saying that she accepted clearly (and she was sure her mother agreed) that
Jennifer's children, not Jennifer herself, inherited. This must have come about
because Mr Penley pointed out to Virginia that this was the consistent approach of all
wills of which he was aware. She also said that if her mother had written saying it
was Jennifer, she meant her children. She noted that Valentine's children were
pressing Valerie for a new Will. Valentine had seen the 2006 Will and a further Will
appears to have been improperly executed by Valerie at this stage. None of this
causes me to come to a different conclusion when considering all the evidence in the
round.
54. On 23rd September 2006, there is an attendance note of Mr Penley recording a
conversation with Rory. Mr Penley clearly thought (almost certainly correctly) that
pressure was being brought on Virginia and Valerie. Rory was of the opinion (again
probably correctly) that Valerie was not able to grasp everything at that time and she
would be inclined to say things simply in order (as the attendance note puts it) to
"enquire". I cannot safely rely upon anything emanating from Valerie (or Virginia) at
this time. When the 2006 Will was explained and executed, by contrast, the occasion
was not coloured by high emotion, or family rancour.
55. In all the circumstances, I pronounce in favour of the validity of the 2006 Will.
9
Page 24 of 380
FORM 269C1
COURT OF APPEAL
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL, CIVIL DIVISION
REF: A3/2013/2303
WEBSTER
--
(CIV:GS.26.07.13)
Her Majesty's
Court (SEALjcal
- 5 NOV 2013
ASHCROFT & ORS
ORDER made by the Rt. Hon. Lord Justice Lewison
On consideration of the appellant's notice and accompanying documents, but without an oral hearing, in respect of an
application for permission to appeal
Decision: granted, refused, adjourned. An order granting permission may limit the issues to be heard or be
made subject to conditions.
REFUSED
Reasons
Proprietary estoppel
1. The judge's conclusion turned entirely on the facts that he found. The testing of oral evidence against
contemporaneous documents is a conventional and well-recognised method of evaluating evidence. There is no
error of principle in the judge's fact-finding exercise.
2. The fact that the claimant disagrees with the facts as found by the judge gives rise to no ground of appeal.
3. There was no dispute about the law before the judge, and his self-direction reveals no error of law.
Want of knowledge and approval
4. This issue also turned on a pure question of fact. The judge was entitled to accept the evidence of Mr Penley.
5. There is no real prospect that the Court of Appeal will interfere with the judge's findings.
Information for or directions to the parties
This case falls within the Court of Appeal Mediation Scheme automatic pilot categories". Yes
Recommended for mediation
If not, please give reason:
Yes
No
Where permission has been granted, or the application adjourned
a) time estimate (excluding judgment)
b) any expedition
MAJESTY'S
HER M
COUP
E & W
APPEA
No
Signed: Kin hewi
31.10.13
By the Court
Date:
☑
Page 25 of 380
DATED 31ST OCTOBER 2013
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL
ORDER
Copies to:
Rupert Jolyon St John Webster
The Priory
Ash Priors
Taunton
Somerset
TA4 3ND
Jennifer St John Webster
The Priory
Ash Priors
Taunton
Somerset
TA4 3ND
Ian Rory St John Webster
Lye House
West Wick
Pewsey
Wilts
SN9 5JZ
Antonia Mary Sloane
Cottage-On-The-Common
Ash Priors
Taunton
Somerset
TA4 3ND
Alison Virginia Ashcroft
Blackbrook Gate
Blackbrook Park Ave
Taunton
TA1 2PG
Clarke Willmott Lip
Dx 97175
Taunton Blackbrook
Chancery Division
1st Floor, Roll's Building
File Management
London EC4A 1NL
Ref: HC09C01570
Page 26 of 380
Neutral Citation Number: [2014] EWCA Civ 1772
IN THE SUPREME COURT OF JUDICATURE
IN THE COURT OF APPEAL (CIVIL DIVISION)
ON APPEAL FROM THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
(HIS HONOUR JUDGE PURLE QC)
BEFORE:
LORD JUSTICE FLOYD
WEBSTER
-V-
ASHCROFT & ORS
A3/2013/2303
Royal Courts of Justice
Strand
London, WC2
Thursday, 13th February 2014
(Digital Audio Transcript of
WordWave International Limited
A Merrill Communications Company
165 Fleet Street, London EC4A 2DY
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 Fax No: 020 7831 8838
Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
The Applicant appeared in Person
JUDGMENT
(Approved)
Crown copyright©
Claimant/Applicant
Defendant/Respondent
Page 27 of 380
LORD JUSTICE FLOYD: 1. This is an application for permission to appeal the decision of His
Honour Judge Purle QC made on 22nd May 2013. The judge rejected a claim based on
proprietary estoppel made by the claimant in respect of land known as Priory Farmhouse
and two adjoining fields in Ash Priors in Somerset.
2.
The claimant is the administrator of the estate of his father, the late Valentine Webster. He
makes this claim on behalf of his father's estate. The proprietary estoppel claim was said
to be based on representations made over the years, starting in the 1970s by Valentines'
parents, that is the claimant's grandparents, Anthony and Valerie, to the effect that Ash
Priors would come to Valentine. Valentine died on 16th September 2006. Anthony died
on 10th February 1996. Valerie died on 21st August 2007.
3.
As the judge observed this made the case an unusual one in that neither the alleged
representors, that is to say the grandparents nor the alleged representees were available to
give evidence as sadly they have all died. It not only made the case unusual, it made the
judge's task a difficult one.
4.
The sole beneficiary of the estate, Valentine's wife Jennifer, chose not to bring proceedings
herself but supported the appointment of the claimant to bring proceedings as her personal
representative.
5.
The proceedings also included a challenge to the will of Rupert's grandmother, Valerie,
dated 24th May 2006, on the grounds that it lacked her knowledge and approval.
Page 28 of 380
6.
The judge recorded in his judgment that the principles relevant to proprietary estoppel
were not in dispute. The grounds of appeal and the skeleton argument seek to call into
question almost every finding and observation of the judge and say that the judge failed to
give weight to a number of highly detailed matters, set out in numbered paragraphs on
pages 4 and onwards of the skeleton.
7.
It is said that he failed to look at the matter holistically. In argument before me this
morning Mr Hill has argued that the judge incorrectly stated that the law was agreed and
that it appears from reading the judgment, he submits, that the judge had failed to take into
account developments in the law starting with Gillett v Holt [2001] Ch 210, including
Suggitt v Suggitt [2012] EWCA Civ 1140, Thorner v Majors & Ors [2009] 1 WLR 766
and Henry v Henry [2010] UKPC 3.
8.
Some of the difficulty which the claimant faced can be seen from paragraph 31 of the
judge's judgment which follows his exposition of a tax planning exercise and meeting
which occurred in 1992, at which no reliance had been placed on any representation or
promise. The judge said this:
"Even if I concentrate on the position before 1992, there is virtually no
evidence that Anthony or for that matter Valerie made any promise or
relevant representation to Valentine and previous wills do not suggest that
Valentine had a special position or entitlement as elder son. I am not aware
of any earlier Will where Valentine took the Farmhouse or two fields to the
exclusion of all others. He is unlikely therefore to have been told anything to
foster his belief in that superior entitlement."
9.
The judge concluded that there had not been any representations or promises. He also
Page 29 of 380
concluded that none of the matters relied on by way of detriment which were mainly in the
nature of financial expenditure were incurred in reliance on any promise about ownership
of the property.
10.
The judge's conclusions were essentially based on findings of primary fact, faced amongst
other things, on inferences from contemporaneous events such as the tax planning exercise.
He found little help in the evidence of members of the family for a variety of reasons
including the passage of time and the reliability of witnesses including the claimant. This
is classic territory in which the fact finding judge's assessment will almost invariably
prevail.
11.
I take first want of knowledge and approval, which, to be fair, Mr Hill did not place at the
forefront of his argument. It seems to me that any appeal against the judge's finding that
the Will was executed with the full knowledge and approval of Valerie has no realistic
prospect of success. No criticism is made of the judge's reliance on the principles set out in
Wharton v Bancroft [2011] EWHC 3250. The judge held that irrespective of any
presumption, Valerie knew and approved the contents of her Will, relying very heavily on
the evidence of Mr Penley who he found to be an excellent witness. I would refuse
permission to appeal on that ground.
12.
Mr Hill's principal argument this morning is that Judge Purle appears to have been highly
selective in his approach to the matter and left out of account numerous matters which are
not referred to in his judgment. From this he developed the argument that the judge was
not adopting the broader holistic approach propounded in the cases which I have
Page 30 of 380
