IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE HC 09 C 01570
CHANCERY DIVISION
IN THE ESTATE OF VALERIE HILDA MARGARET WEBSTER DECEASED
BETWEEN:
RUPERT JOLYON RICHARD ST. JOHN WEBSTER
and
ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT (1)
JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY (2)
JENNIFER ST. JOHN WEBSTER (3)
IAN RORY ST. JOHN WEBSTER (4)
ANTONIA MARY SLOANE (5)
MINUTE OF ORDER
Claimant
Defendants
UPON READING a Minute of Order endorsed with the consent of (a) the Solicitors for the
Claimant, and (b) the Solicitors for First and Second Defendants, and (c) the Third
Defendant, and (d) the Fourth Defendant, and (e) the Fifth Defendant
AND UPON the parties agreeing and acknowledging that the last valid testamentary
documents of Valerie Hilda Margaret Webster were her Will dated 16th November 2000 and
one codicil thereto dated 30th May 2002
AND UPON the Second Defendant agreeing to resign forthwith as a Trustee of the Antony
St. John Webster Will Trust, with the Third Defendant being appointed in substitution for the
Second Defendant
AND UPON the First and Second Defendants accepting that none of their costs of the claim
or of the application by Summons dated 11th December 2008 are to be paid out of (a) the
Trust Fund of the Valerie Hilda Margaret Webster Settlement dated 27th April 1992, or (b)
the Trust Fund of the Antony St. John Webster Will Trust or (c) the Estate of Valerie Hilda
Margaret Webster
Page 93 of 140
BY CONSENT
IT IS ORDERED that all further proceedings herein be stayed upon the terms set out in the
Schedule hereto save for the purpose of enforcing or carrying into effect the said terms with
liberty to apply for that purpose
AND IT IS RECORDED that the parties have agreed that any claim for breach of contract
arising from an alleged breach of the terms set out in the Schedule may, unless the court
otherwise orders, be dealt with by way of an application to the court without the need to start
a new claim
AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Claimant's costs of (a) the claim and (b) the
application by Summons dated 11th December 2008 be paid by the First and Second
Defendants on the standard basis, such costs to be subject to detailed assessment if not agreed
between (a) the Claimant and (b) the First and Second Defendants.
SCHEDULE
1.
2.
The Claimant will, in his capacity as Executor of the Estate of his father Valentine
St. John Webster, apply for a Grant of Probate in respect of the Estate of Valerie
Hilda Margaret Webster and, following the making of that Grant, will complete
the administration of her Estate.
The Claimant will not at any time hereafter allege or contend that the Valerie
Hilda Margaret Webster Settlement dated 27th April 1992 is subject to or
burdened by any proprietary estoppel in his favour whether in his personal
capacity or in his capacity as Executor of the Estate of his father Valentine St.
John Webster.
WE CONSENT TO THE MAKING OF AN ORDER IN THE ABOVE TERMS
Beviss & Beckingsale, Solicitors for the Claimant
Clarke Willmott, Solicitors for the First & Second Defendants
Jennifer St. John Webster, Third Defendant
Ian Rory St. John Webster, Fourth Defendant
Antonia Mary Sloane, Fifth Defendant
Page 94 of 140
Mr Stephen Fisher Crouch
Law Chambers
Manor House
Honiton
Devon
EX14 1DJ
3 Veronica Road
London
SW17 8QL
Tel: 07740 289100
rupert@webstersystems.co.uk
6th February 2013
Dear Sirs,
WITHOUT PREJUDICE SAVE AS TO COSTS
Webster v Ashcroft (1) and Others
HC 09 C 01570
Our client's claim is of course listed for a five day Trial from 13th February 2013 onwards.
Although our client has previously made formal offers to settle on a "Without Prejudice Save
As To Costs" basis, his offers have been rejected by your Clients, with no counter-offers
whatsoever having been made by them.
We are now writing to put forward a fresh Offer, in the hope that a settlement can
this late stage - be reached, and the costs of Trial thereby be saved.
-
even at
Having received from you on the morning of Monday 4th February 2013 copies of documents
from the 2005 Will file of John Shirley & Co., it is clear that the First Defendant ought to
have informed the Second Defendant either before or during the appointment on 24th May
2006 at which Valerie signed her Disputed 2006 Will, that she had been told by Mrs. Booth
less than five months before the appointment that (i) Mrs. Booth had concerns about
Valerie's "ability to make any alterations to her will" and that (ii) Mrs. Booth had already
confirmed in the Summer of 2005 that she didn't think Valerie "was capable of giving proper
Will instructions", and when the First Defendant asked whether Valerie could make a
simple codicil reducing pecuniary legacies of £1,000 by half - that (iii) Mrs. Booth "had
concerns about her even doing that".
Page 1 of 4
Page 95 of 140
No reference whatsoever has been made by the First Defendant in her Witness Statement to
that discussion on 5th January 2006, and the Court will presumably learn during the course of
cross-examination whether she did indeed so inform the Second Defendant and/or the Fourth
Defendant. In the circumstances, one or more of the First, Second and Fourth Defendants
is/are likely to be heavily criticised by the Court.
Furthermore, it is clear that the John Shirley & Co. file has been in the "control", within the
meaning of CPR 31.8 (2) (b), of the Second Defendant for well over two years, namely since
his appointment on 9th July 2010 as Administrator pending determination of our Client's
claim. He should therefore at that stage - and arguably earlier - have taken the steps which he
apparently only embarked upon late last year, namely to obtain the relevant file from John
Shirley & Co. and provide disclosure of it, as provided for in the Order dated 22nd March
2010.
However, what actually has happened is that both of your Clients have continued to propound
the Disputed 2006 Will, and indeed they continue to do so notwithstanding the contents of the
John Shirley & Co. file and the evidence of Mrs. Booth. Had your Clients accepted that the
Disputed 2006 Will was not valid we believe that there would have been a very good
prospect of a settlement at a much earlier stage, and a considerable amount of costs would
thereby have been saved.
In a letter dated 8th November 2012 we also repeatedly raised our concerns as to the conflict
of interest between the First and Second Defendants, in consequence of which Mr Penley and
his firm (Penleys LLP) will be the subject of negligence proceedings arising out of one more
of the following:
1. His failure to act in accordance with Antony's wishes, intentions and instructions in
1992
2. His failure to act in accordance with the wishes and intentions - and indeed the
repeated specific instructions of Valerie in relation to The Priory and the
Agricultural Land
3. His failure whilst dealing with the administration of Antony's estate to take account
of the use and occupation by Valentine and Jennifer of the Priory and of the
Agricultural Land, and the resulting lower value of Antony's net estate
4. The taking of instructions in relation to the Disputed 2006 Will
5. His failure to seek instructions from Valerie - as opposed to Virginia and / or Rory, as
to the making of a fresh Will following Valentine's death, and
6. His failure whilst dealing with the administration of Valerie's estate to take account of
the use and occupation by Valentine and/or Jennifer and/or Valentine's estate of the
Priory and of the Agricultural Land, and of the claims being made in these
proceedings, and the resulting lower value of Valerie's net estate.
Page 2 of 4
Page 96 of 140
In our most recent letter of 1st February 2013 we again raised the concern that one or more
findings will be made against Mr Penley and his firm of which it is incumbent on him to
report the matter to his Professional Indemnity Insurers.
The draft Minute of Order therefore provides for the Second Defendant to resign as a Trustee
of Antony's Will Trust and be replaced by the Third Defendant. This is broadly consistent
with the following:
-
1. Valentine's request of 8th July 2005 attested by Valerie and the First Defendant
2. Valentine's request of 16th July 2005 attested by the Fourth Defendant
3. The Third Defendant's Appointment of 31st July 2005
4. Master Bragge's Order of 22nd September 2010 to join the Third Defendant into the
proceedings
5. The Third Defendant's continuing residency at the Priory and Taunton Trees
6. Valentine's Will
The Third Defendant replacing the Second Defendant as a trustee of Antony's Will Trust
alongside Virginia potentially indemnifies the Second Defendant in respect of negligence
proceedings that could otherwise be brought by our Client and/or any of the other Defendants
in respect of Antony's wishes, intentions and instructions in 1992.
In all the circumstances, our Client offers to settle his claim on the basis set out in the
attached and enclosed draft Minute of Order. As you will see, it provides for the First and
Second Defendants to pay our Client's costs on the standard basis. In view of what we have
set out above and in earlier correspondence, we anticipate that the First and Second
Defendants would need to agree with each other what proportion of the Claimant's costs each
of them would bear. They have brought these proceedings upon themselves, and must bear
the costs consequences of their actions.
If your Clients are minded to accept our Client's Offer, but are concerned with our drafting,
please raise those concerns with us, as we would not wish any drafting difficulties to stand in
the way of a settlement.
With a view to ascertaining whether one, some or all of the unrepresented Defendants are
willing to agree a settlement in the terms proposed by our Client, we shall today send to each
of them a copy of this letter and of the draft Minute of Order.
with
In light of the forthcoming Trial and of the need to deliver a Brief to Counsel
associated costs consequences - we look forward to hearing from you in response as a matter
of urgency.
Page 3 of 4
Page 97 of 140
As will be evident from the heading of this letter, it is written on a "Without Prejudice Save
As To Costs" basis, and in the event of our Client's Offer being rejected he reserves the right
to refer to its contents when the question of costs falls to be dealt with at the conclusion of the
forthcoming Trial.
Yours faithfully,
BEVISS & BECKINGSALE
Page 4 of 4
Page 98 of 140
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
HC 09 C 01570
IN THE ESTATE OF VALERIE HILDA MARGARET WEBSTER DECEASED
BETWEEN:
RUPERT JOLYON RICHARD ST. JOHN WEBSTER
and
ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT (1)
JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY (2)
JENNIFER ST. JOHN WEBSTER (3)
IAN RORY ST. JOHN WEBSTER (4)
ANTONIA MARY SLOANE (5)
MINUTE OF ORDER
Claimant
Defendants
UPON READING a Minute of Order endorsed with the consent of (a) the Solicitors for the
Claimant, and (b) the Solicitors for First and Second Defendants, and (c) the Third
Defendant, and (d) the Fourth Defendant, and (e) the Fifth Defendant
AND UPON the parties agreeing and acknowledging that the last valid testamentary
documents of Valerie Hilda Margaret Webster were her Will dated 16 th November 2000 and
one codicil thereto dated 30th May 2002
Page 99 of 140
AND UPON the Second Defendant agreeing to resign forthwith as a Trustee of the Antony
St. John Webster Will Trust, with the Third Defendant being appointed in substitution for the
Second Defendant
AND UPON the First and Second Defendants accepting that none of their costs of the claim
or of the application by Summons dated 11th December 2008 are to be paid out of (a) the
Trust Fund of the Valerie Hilda Margaret Webster Settlement dated 27th April 1992, or (b)
the Trust Fund of the Antony St. John Webster Will Trust or (c) the Estate of Valerie Hilda
Margaret Webster
BY CONSENT
IT IS ORDERED that all further proceedings herein be stayed upon the terms set out in the
Schedule hereto save for the purpose of enforcing or carrying into effect the said terms with
liberty to apply for that purpose
AND IT IS RECORDED that the parties have agreed that any claim for breach of contract
arising from an alleged breach of the terms set out in the Schedule may, unless the court
otherwise orders, be dealt with by way of an application to the court without the need to start
a new claim
AND IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that the Claimant's costs of (a) the claim and (b) the
application by Summons dated 11th December 2008 be paid by the First and Second
Defendants on the standard basis, such costs to be subject to detailed assessment if not agreed
between (a) the Claimant and (b) the First and Second Defendants.
SCHEDULE
Page 100 of 140
1. The Claimant will, in his capacity as Executor of the Estate of his father Valentine St.
John Webster, apply for a Grant of Probate in respect of the Estate of Valerie Hilda
Margaret Webster and, following the making of that Grant, will complete the
administration of her Estate.
2. The Claimant will not at any time hereafter allege or contend that the Valerie Hilda
Margaret Webster Settlement dated 27th April 1992 is subject to or burdened by any
proprietary estoppel in his favour whether in his personal capacity or in his capacity
as Executor of the Estate of his father Valentine St. John Webster.
WE CONSENT TO THE MAKING OF AN ORDER IN THE ABOVE TERMS
Beviss & Beckingsale, Solicitors for the Claimant
Clarke Wilmott, Solicitors for the First & Second Defendants
Jennifer St.John Webster, Third Defendant
Ian Rory St. John Webster, Fourth Defendant
Antonia Mary Sloane, Fifth Defendant
Page 101 of 140
Law Chambers, Manor House,
High Street, Honiton, Devon EX14 1DJ
DX 48803 Honiton
Telephone: 01404 548055 Switchboard: 01404 548050 Fax: 01404 548052
E:mail: sfc@bevissandbeckingsale.co.uk
Clarke Willmott
Solicitors
DX: 97175
TAUNTON (BLACKBROOK)
Our Ref SFC/CLIW/WEB.1346.1
:
Your Ref: 2/LT060/1714/723/365148.1 vm
7th February 2013
BY FAX: 0845 209 2563 (TOTAL OF 7 PAGES)
AND BY DX
WITHOUT PREJUDICE SAVE AS TO COSTS
Dear Sirs,
Webster v Ashcroft (1) and Others
HC 09 C 01570
Our Client's claim is of course listed for a five day Trial from 13th February 2013 onwards. Although
our Client has previously made formal offers to settle on a "Without Prejudice Save As To Costs"
basis, his offers have been rejected by your Clients, with no counter-offers whatsoever having been
made by them.
We are now writing to put forward a fresh Offer, in the hope that a settlement can
stage – be reached, and the costs of Trial thereby be saved.
-
even at this late
Having received from you on the morning of Monday 4th February 2013 copies of documents from the
2005 Will file of John Shirley & Co., it is clear that the First Defendant should have informed the
Second Defendant either before or during the appointment on 24th May 2006 at which Valerie signed
her Disputed 2006 Will, that she had been told by Mrs. Booth less than five months before the
appointment that (i) Mrs. Booth had concerns about Valerie's “ability to make any alterations to her
Will”, and that (ii) Mrs. Booth had already confirmed in the Summer of 2005 that she didn't think
Valerie "was capable of giving proper Will instructions", and when the First Defendant asked
This firm does not accept service of documents by email.
This firm is regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. Beviss & Beckingsale SRA No: 47074
Offices at AXMINSTER. CHARD. HONITON. SEATON.
PARTNERS
ME Ollier LL.B. MA Carlisle LL.B. Mrs Z Gaitskell LL.B. Miss V Boyer LL.B. Mrs F Griffiths BSc.
STAFF SOLICITORS
SR Fisher Crouch MA (Cantab). Mrs E Heron MA (Oxon). Mrs. E Rybaruk LL.B.
Miss K Curtis LL.B. Mrs J E Knight LL.B. Mr P Watkins LL.B. Mr M Micklethwait BA. Mrs E Dushynsky BSc. Miss E L Gough LL.B.
Why not visit our new website at www.bevissandbeckingsale.co.uk and meet the team.
*
Lexcel resolution
Practice Management Standard
Law Society Accredited
first for family law
THE LAW
SOCIETY
Conveyancing
Quality
REDITED
Page 102 of 140
whether Valerie could make a simple codicil reducing pecuniary legacies of £1,000.00 by half - that
(iii) Mrs. Booth "had concerns about her even doing that".
No reference whatsoever has been made by the First Defendant in her Witness Statement to that
discussion on 5th January 2006, and the Court will presumably learn during the course of cross-
examination whether she did indeed so inform the Second Defendant and/or the Fourth Defendant. In
the circumstances, one or more of the First, Second and Fourth Defendants is/are likely to be heavily
criticised by the Court.
Furthermore, it is clear that the John Shirley & Co. file has been in the “control”, within the meaning
of CPR 31.8 (2) (b), of the Second Defendant for well over two years, namely since his appointment
on 9th July 2010 as Administrator pending determination of our Client's claim. He should therefore at
that stage - and arguably earlier - have taken the steps which he apparently only embarked upon late
last year, namely to obtain the relevant file from John Shirley & Co. and provide disclosure of it, as
provided for in the Order dated 22nd March 2010.
However, what actually has happened is that both of your Clients have continued to propound the
Disputed 2006 Will, and indeed they continue to do so notwithstanding the contents of the John
Shirley & Co. file and the evidence of Mrs. Booth. Had your Clients accepted that the Disputed 2006
Will was not valid we believe that there would have been a very good prospect of a settlement at a
much earlier stage, and a considerable amount of costs would thereby have been saved.
In our letter dated 8th November 2012, we repeated our concerns as to the conflict of interest between
the First and Second Defendants, in consequence of which Mr Penley and his firm (Penleys LLP) will
be the subject of negligence proceedings arising out of one more of the following:
1. His failure to act in accordance with Antony's wishes, intentions and instructions in 1992
2. His failure to act in accordance with the wishes and intentions and indeed the repeated
specific instructions - of Valerie in relation to The Priory and the Agricultural Land
3. His failure whilst dealing with the administration of Antony's estate to take account of the
use and occupation by Valentine and Jennifer of the Priory and of the Agricultural Land,
and the resulting lower value of Antony's net estate
4. The taking of instructions in relation to the Disputed 2006 Will
5. His failure to seek instructions from Valerie as opposed to Virginia and/or Rory, as to
the making of a fresh Will following Valentine's death, and
6. His failure whilst dealing with the administration of Valerie's estate to take account of the
use and occupation by Valentine and/or Jennifer and/or Valentine's estate of the Priory
and of the Agricultural Land, and of the claims being made in these proceedings, and the
resulting lower value of Valerie's net estate.
Page 103 of 140
In our most recent letter dated 1st February 2013, we again raised the concern that one or more adverse
findings will be made against Mr Penley and his firm at the Trial, and that it is incumbent on him to
report the matter to his Professional Indemnity Insurers before the Trial.
The attached and enclosed draft Minute of Order therefore provides for the Second Defendant to
resign as a Trustee of Antony's Will Trust and be replaced by the Third Defendant. This is broadly
consistent with the following:
1. Valentine's request of 8th July 2005 attested by Valerie and the First Defendant
2. Valentine's request of 16th July 2005 attested by the Fourth Defendant
3. The Third Defendant's Appointment of 31st July 2005
4. Master Bragge's Order of 22nd September 2010 to join the Third Defendant into the
proceedings
5. The Third Defendant's continuing residency at the Priory and Taunton Trees
6. Valentine's Will.
The Third Defendant replacing the Second Defendant as a trustee of Antony's Will Trust alongside
Virginia potentially indemnifies the Second Defendant in respect of negligence proceedings that could
otherwise be brought by our Client and/or any of the other Defendants in respect of Antony's wishes,
intentions and instructions in 1992.
In all the circumstances, our Client offers to settle his claim on the basis set out in the attached and
enclosed draft Minute of Order. As you will see, it provides for the First and Second Defendants to
pay our Client's costs on the standard basis. In view of what we have set out above and in earlier
correspondence, we anticipate that the First and Second Defendants would need to agree with each
other what proportion of the Claimant's costs each of them would bear. They have brought these
proceedings upon themselves, and must bear the costs consequences of their actions.
If your Clients are minded to accept our Client's Offer, but are concerned with our drafting, please
raise those concerns with us, as we would not wish any drafting difficulties to stand in the way of a
settlement.
With a view to ascertaining whether one, some or all of the unrepresented Defendants are willing to
agree a settlement in the terms proposed by our Client, we shall today send to each of them a copy of
this letter and of the draft Minute of Order.
In light of the forthcoming Trial, we look forward to hearing from you in response as a matter of
urgency.
Page 104 of 140
As will be evident from the heading of this letter, it is written on a "Without Prejudice Save As To
Costs" basis, and in the event of our Client's Offer being rejected he reserves the right to refer to its
contents when the question of costs falls to be dealt with at the conclusion of the forthcoming Trial.
Yours faithfully,
BEVISS & BECKINGSALE
Page 105 of 140
Important: Please
read the notes overleaf
before completing the form.
Form K1
Land Charges Act 1972
Application for registration of a Land Charge
Application is hereby made for the registration of a Land
Charge in respect of the following particulars
Fee panel
Place "X" in the appropriate box. See
Note 1 overleaf.
☑ A cheque or postal order for the
correct fee accompanies this
application.
Please debit our Direct Debit
under an authorised agreement
with Land Registry.
Enter full name(s)
and
address(es)
of chargee(s).
(See Notes 2 and 3 overleaf)
If land charge is created
by an instrument, enter
date and full names of
the parties here. If it
arises (as in Class A or
Class B) by statute, enter
Act and Section instead.
If neither, state short
particulars of effect of
charge and date on which
charge arose.
Class and Sub-Class
Particulars of chargee(s)
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
THE PRIORY, ASH PRIORS, TAUNTON, SOMERSET, TA4 3ND
Particulars of charge
Date 14 FEBRUARY 2014
(Continue on form K10 if necessary)
Parties EQUITABLE CHARGE AS TENANT FOR LIFE IN ACTUAL OCCUPATION
HAVING AN OVERRIDING INTEREST PURSUANT TO AN EQUITABLE LICENSE
of charge.
Class C
Sub-Class iii
(See Note 4 overleaf)
If application is made pursuant
to a Priority Notice please enter
here its official reference number
Particulars of land affected
SOMERSET
District
County or unitary authority area
TAUNTON DEANE
THE PRIORY, ASH PRIORS, TAUNTON, SOMERSET, TA4 3ND
Short description
(See Note 5 overleaf)
Only one individual
or body to be
entered.
Particulars of estate owner
Forename(s)
ALISON VIRGINIA
Surname ASHCROFT
(See Note 6 overleaf)
RETIRED
Title, Trade or Profession
(See Note 7 overleaf)
Conveyancer's name and
address (including
postcode)
If no conveyancer is acting
enter applicant's
name and address
(including postcode).
(See Note 8 overleaf)
Address 17 CHILTERN ROAD, BATH, SOMERSET, BA1 6DR
Key number
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
THE PRIORY
ASH PRIORS
TAUNTON
SOMERSET
TA4 3ND
Conveyancer's reference: rupert@webstersystems.co.uk
I/We certify that the estate owner's title is not registered at the Land Registry.
Signature of conveyancer or applicant
(See Notes 9 and 10 overleaf)
For official use only
2
3
*C
4
5
6
14 FEBRUARY 2014
Date
Page 106 of 140
Fee payable
Form completion
Particulars of chargee
Classes of land charges
Particulars of land affected
Particulars of estate owner
Key number
Conveyancer's reference
Signature and certificate
Explanatory Notes
The following notes are supplied for assistance in making the application overleaf. Detailed information
for the making of all kinds of applications to the Land Charges Department is contained in Practice
Guide 63 - Land Charges - Applications for registration, official search, office copy and cancellation
which is obtainable on application at the address shown below.
1. Fees must be paid by Direct Debit under an authorised agreement with Land Registry or by cheque or
postal order made payable to “Land Registry" (see the Practice Guide referred to above).
2. The application can be typed or handwritten in black ink. If handwritten, block capitals should be
used.
3. Please enter the full name and address of each person entitled to the benefit of the charge and on
whose behalf the application is being made.
4. This form is for use in registering any one of the following classes or sub-classes of land charge, as
specified in s.2 of the Land Charges Act 1972:
Class A
Class B
-
Class C(i) puisne mortgage
-
Class C(ii) limited owner's charge
Class C(iii) - general equitable charge
Class C(iv) estate contract
-
Class D(i) inland revenue charge
Class D(ii) restrictive covenant
Class D(iii) equitable easement
NB. To register a land charge of Class F (rights of a spouse or civil partner to occupy the matrimonial or
civil partnership home) use printed form K2. To register a Pending Action use printed form K3 and, for
a Writ or Order, printed form K4.
5. Enter the names of the administrative county and district or unitary authority area in which the land
is situated. This must be the appropriate name as set out in Practice Guide 63 – Land Charges -
Applications for registration, official search, office copy and cancellation. In London, enter
"Greater London” as the county name and the London Borough as that of the district. A short
description identifying the location of the land must also be supplied; for urban properties the postal
address will usually suffice. In other cases the description should be supplied as given in the
instrument. When this does not provide a description which identifies the location of the land, an
additional reference may be made to the land as being that defined on a plan to the instrument, but
the plan should not accompany the application.
6. A separate form is required for each estate owner against whom the land charge is to be registered.
Thus, when two persons are joint estate owners, two separate forms K1 must be supplied. “Estate
owner" is defined in s.205 of the Law of Property Act 1925.
In the case of individuals, forenames must be separated from surname and each entered in the spaces
provided. In the case of a corporate body, no such distinction arises and the printed words
"Forename(s)" and "Surname" should be deleted before entering in the spaces the corporate name in
its ordinary form (eg, “Blankshire County Council", "John Brown and Company Limited").
7. If you have been allocated a key number, please take care to enter this in the space provided
overleaf, whether or not you are paying fees by Direct Debit.
8. Any reference should be limited to 25 characters (including oblique strokes and punctuation).
9. An application will be rejected if it is not signed or if the certificate that it does not affect registered
land has been deleted. However, in a case of extreme urgency, where it is not practicable for the
applicant first to ascertain whether or not the land is registered, the Department will accept an
application with the certificate deleted provided that it is accompanied by a letter to the following
effect. The letter must certify that the applicant has applied for an official search of the index map at
the appropriate Land Registry office. It must also contain an undertaking that he will apply to cancel
this registration if the result of search shows that the title to the land is registered.
10. When completed, this application form should be despatched to the address shown below which is
printed in a position to fit within a standard window envelope.
Despatch of form
The Superintendent
Land Charges Department
Registration Section
Seaton Court, 2 William Prance Road,
PLYMOUTH PL6 5WS
DX 8249 PLYMOUTH (3)
Crown copyright (ref: LR/HO) 10/13
Page 107 of 140
