Judgment approved by the court
Mr. Justice Marcus Smith
MR. JUSTICE MARCUS SMITH:
Webster v MOJ
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
I have before me an application that is made by the Defendant in proceedings under
claim number HC-2016-001499. The Defendant is named as the “Ministry of Justice",
but it is submitted by Mr. Rainsbury, who appeared before me for the Defendant, that
(if this claim were to proceed) then the appropriate defendant would actually be the
Lord Chancellor and that the Claim Form and Particulars of Claim as presently
articulated identify the wrong defendant.
Mr Rainsbury does not take a point on this matter in terms of the arguability of the
Particulars of Claim. He simply makes clear that (if the matter should proceed) the
proper defendant should be named. I consider that he is correct in this regard.
The application made is for an order that the Claimant's Claim Form and Particulars of
Claim be struck out pursuant to CPR 3.4, that the Claimant's claim is totally without
merit and the court impose a civil restraint order.
I do not, in this Ruling, deal with the last point, the question of whether a civil restraint
order should be imposed. This Ruling deals with the substance of the application to
strike out the Claim Form and the Particulars of Claim and/or to give summary
judgment for the Defendant on like grounds.
There is before me (although there is no formal application) an application for
permission to amend the Particulars of Claim. I proceed on the basis that I should treat
the Particulars of Claim as if they had been amended for the purposes of this
application, so that I am determining whether the proceedings can proceed on the basis
of the best case that the Claimant can put forward, rather than the unamended claim
that is presently pleaded.
It seems to me (and the parties accept this) that there is a close link between the
application made by the Defendant to strike out the Claim Form and the Particulars of
Claim and/or for summary judgment and the application to amend. If the Defendant's
application succeeds, then the amendment application must necessarily fail. But if the
strike out and summary judgment applications fail, then the amendment application
ought necessarily to succeed because an arguable claim going forward will have been
established. I proceed on that basis.
That means that I must consider the application to strike out and/or the application for
summary judgment first. That application is essentially made on three bases.
First, it is said that the pleadings, even taking into account the proposed amendments,
are and remain insufficiently particularised. As will become clear in the course of my
Ruling, the claim advanced by the Claimant amounts to a claim in respect of various
judgments that have been issued over the years by various courts. Essentially, what is
sought, is a remedy in respect of various judicial acts that have been made in the past.
It is said they are defective, in that the Human Rights Act has been infringed. What the
2
Page 130 of 380
Judgment approved by the court
Mr. Justice Marcus Smith
Webster v MOJ
9.
Defendant says is that there has been a failure on the part of the Claimant to set out in
what way these past judgments are defective. That is Mr. Rainsbury's first point.
The second point is that, some, but not all, of the judgments relied upon by the
Claimant, time-barred under section 7(5) of the Human Rights Act.
10. The third point that is taken by Mr. Rainsbury is that the remedies sought by the
Claimant are not achievable as they are framed at the moment. I should expand on that.
The claim that is advanced by the Claimant has been commenced as a fresh action
under the claim number that I have identified, brought by the Claimant in this court as
a new claim. Because the claim that has been framed by the Claimant involves a claim
under the Human Rights Act in respect of a judicial act, it is clear from CPR 7.11(1)
that the claim may only be brought in the High Court. The Claimant says that he has
complied with that rule, by bringing his claim in the High Court. So far as
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
is of course right. The Chancery Division is a division of the High Court.
goes, that
That does not, however, answer Mr. Rainsbury's point, as I understand it. Mr.
Rainsbury says that regard must be had to section 9(1) of the Human rights Act. This
provides that proceedings under section 7(1)(a) in respect of judicial acts may be
brought only (a) by exercising the right of appeal, (b) on an application (or in Scotland
a petition) for judicial review or (c) in such other forum as made prescribed by the
Rules. The provision of the CPR on which the Claimant relies (CPR 7.11(1)) is not to
be taken as rewriting the provisions of section 9. What section 9 does, according to Mr
Rainsbury, is set out precisely how an action in respect of a challenge to a judicial act
must be framed, and he says quite fairly that there is no appeal here advanced by Mr
Webster, there is no claim for a judicial review and the Claimant has identified no other
forum prescribed by the Rules by way of which this claim can be brought. That
constitutes the third ground of challenge advanced by the Defendant.
It seems to me that it is the third ground that is the central question in terms of the
Defendant's application. It seems to me that that is the ground on which I should
determine this application. I should, briefly, make clear why I am not going to consider
in any great detail the first two points that are advanced by Mr. Rainsbury.
As regards the first point (namely that the pleadings are still defective), whilst I see
force in the point, the point is not a conclusive one. If the Claimant's case were
otherwise sound, and could be cured by amendment, then I could invite the Claimant to
try again and to set out with yet further particularity exactly why the various decisions
which the Claimant seeks to challenge are in fact deficient when viewed through the
prism of the Human Rights Act.
Indeed, it is ordinary practice, particularly when there is a litigant in person, to give the
litigant exactly that opportunity. So it seems to me that Mr. Rainsbury's first point is
unlikely to lead to a conclusive determination of these proceedings.
The second point is the point regarding limitation. As Mr. Rainsbury's skeleton
argument states, there are in fact ten decisions which the Claimant claims have violated
various human rights. These decisions are set out in paragraph 5 of Mr. Rainsbury's
3
Page 131 of 380
Judgment approved by the court
Mr. Justice Marcus Smith
Webster v MOJ
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
skeleton, and I do not propose to list them here, but simply incorporate by reference the
list of decisions as set out in paragraph 5.
Mr. Rainsbury fairly accepts that it cannot be said that all of these decisions are time-
barred under the Human Rights Act. Some, he says, are; some, he accepts, are not. So,
again, it seems to me that this is not a complete answer to the pleading that is advanced
by the Claimant.
For these reasons, it is the third question which I should consider, to see whether it is
determinative of the entire action, rather than approaching matters on the basis of
points that are (properly seen) fully determinative.
So I turn to the third point, what I call the “section 9” point. Regarded in the pleadings
we have a dispute, a family dispute, a very serious family dispute, going back many,
many years. It has been litigated many times and, as I have said just a moment ago, we
have no less than ten decisions by judges of various levels determining various points
in relation to this family dispute.
I should make clear that there are a number of decisions which are made either by
judges of equal standing to me (decisions of Birss J., for example) or of more higher
standing than me (decisions of the Court of Appeal). So the decisions the Claimant
seeks to attack by this claim are in a number of case decisions which certainly would
not come before me on an appeal.
Although there may be elements of self-standing claims that the Claimant could
advance against persons other than the Lord Chancellor, such claims are nothing to the
point for present purposes. The Claimant, in his oral submissions to me, suggested that
he was not in fact seeking a remedy against the judiciary. What he said he was seeking
was satisfaction in respect of claims against other persons. That, it seems to me, is
something that I must rule out of bounds right away. The fact is that the Defendant here
is (or I am deeming to be) the Lord Chancellor, and the reason the Lord Chancellor is
the proper Defendant is because it is said that multiple decisions, the ten decisions
listed by Mr. Rainsbury in paragraph 5 of his skeleton, in some way infringe the
Claimant's human rights. I should say that I read the Claimant's human rights in the
widest sense possible for the purposes of this application so as to include those of his
relatives, his grandfather and his grandmother. I make no finding about the breadth of
human rights infringements that may or may not exist in this case. I am quite prepared
to proceed on the basis of the Particulars as they have been articulated by the Claimant.
But it seems to me that either this is a challenge to a judicial decision, in which case the
proper defendant is the Lord Chancellor, or it is not, in which case this claim is nothing
to do with the Lord Chancellor, and should be struck out for that reason alone. (I
should make clear that point would equally hold good as against the Defendant actually
named by the Claimant in the Claim Form and Particulars of Claim.)
21. I must, therefore, proceed on the basis that this is a challenge to various judicial
decisions made in the past. The question, in a nutshell, is whether, given that this is a
challenge against past judicial decisions, a self-standing claim can be made of the sort
advanced by the Claimant before me today.
4
Page 132 of 380
Judgment approved by the court
Mr. Justice Marcus Smith
Webster v MOJ
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
I make clear (to the extent that I have not already done so) that I am not going to go
into the facts of this matter. I will assume, for present purposes only, that the facts as
set out in the Draft Amended Particulars of Claim are right. I also accept that if
reasonable grounds for bringing the claim can be shown and that claim is not otherwise
an abuse of process, it must be allowed to proceed.
The key to this case, as it seems to me, lies in section 9(1) of the Human Rights Act,
which in my judgment sets out the procedure by way of which judicial acts that
infringe human rights must be challenged. It seems to me that section 9(1) prescribes
the routes extremely clearly. There are three routes. One is a right of appeal, the other
is a judicial review and the third is such other forum as may be prescribed by the Rules.
I stress that I do not consider that CPR 7.11 suggests that this is the route by way of
which, permissively, a human rights claim in respect of judicial decisions can be
brought. CPR 7.11 is actually very restrictive. What it is saying is that a challenge
which might otherwise be brought in a different court, such as the County Court, must
be brought in the High Court. It does not go further than that. It does not contain a self-
standing route by way of which a judicial decision can be challenged. No other route
identified by the Claimant (nor indeed by Mr. Rainsbury, for I am sure he would have
done that if he knew it) beyond exercising a right of appeal or making an application
for judicial review in this case.
It seems to me that is the short answer to the Claimant's claim. Seeking to revisit a
judicial decision or judicial decisions by way of a fresh cause of action in the High
Court is in clear breach of the route prescribed by section 9 of the Human Rights Act.
In this regard I take considerable comfort from the decision of Ryder LJ, the Senior
President of Tribunals, who had this question - or, at least, a very similar matter
argued before him in Mazhar v The Lord Chancellor [2017] EWFC 65. I note that the
argument was traversed in considerable detail in this case. The Judge had, before him,
three strong legal teams, and he heard the question of the route by way of which
judicial decisions should be challenged over a hearing spanning two days on 24 and 25
May 2017. He set out his conclusions in a reasoned judgment running to some 82
paragraphs.
I rely, I make clear, on the entirety of the decision, but I will only quote from paragraph
78:
“The consequence is that I have come to the conclusion that there is nothing in the HRA (taken
together with either the CPR or the FPR) that provides a power in a court or tribunal to make a
declaration against the Crown in respect of a judicial act. Furthermore, the HRA has not
modified the constitutional principle of judicial immunity. Likewise, the Crown is not to be
held to vicariously liable for the acts of the judiciary with the consequence that the claim for a
declaration is not justiciable in the Courts of England and Wales. A claim for damages against
the Crown is available to Mr. Mazhar for the limited purpose of compensating him for an
article 5(5) breach but the forum for such a claim where the judicial act is that of a judge of the
High Court cannot be a court of co-ordinate jurisdiction. On the facts of this case, the only
court that can consider a damages claim is the Court of Appeal."
5
Page 133 of 380
Judgment approved by the court
Mr. Justice Marcus Smith
Webster v MoJ
27.
28.
29.
30.
It seems to me that the claim as set out in the Claim Form and as stated in the Draft
Amended Particulars of Claim must fail for a number of reasons.
First, there is the fact that the route by way of which judicial acts are to be challenged is
laid down in statute by section 9(1) of the Human Rights Act.
Secondly, and relatedly, there is the propriety of freshly originated proceedings (even if
brought in the High Court in accordance with CPR 7.11) involving or potentially
involving a High Court judge reviewing decisions of judges of equal or higher
standing. That is, to say the least, obviously not helpful to the proper and due
administration of justice. The fact is that that there are a proper, laid-down, processes
for the review of judicial decisions. These should be followed.
I stress that I do not see this as a case of judicial immunity. Judges are, it is true,
immune from personal suit, but their decisions are not immune from review. Their
decisions are subject to very stringent control in the form of review by the higher
courts of this country. The fact is that a decision of either the High Court, or of a lower
court or of the Court of Appeal are subject to review by higher courts in accordance
with the rules laid down and in accordance with the rule of law. It seems to me that
there is excellent reason for ensuring that the integrity of the system is maintained by
following and abiding by the rules of appeal rather than sidestepping them by way of a
separate and self-standing cause of action. That, it seems to me, is very clearly
articulated in the decision in Mazhar.
31. There is a further, weighty reason why this process of self-standing action is an abuse
of process, which is what I termed “the point of infinite regression”. The fact is that if
it is permissible to challenge the decision of a judge or other judicial act by way of a
separate action other than appeal, then if that challenge itself fails, there can be a yet
further challenge. If that challenge fails, there can be a still yet further challenge, and
so on to infinity. It seems to me that the answer to the infinite regression point can only
be that there is no such infinite regression, and that is because there are rights of appeal
laid down in the system which must be followed. They are mandatory; they are not
facultative rules.
32.
33.
34.
So, for those reasons I consider that this is a case and a claim that should be struck out
pursuant to CPR 3.4(2)(a), in that I find that the statement of case discloses no
reasonable grounds for bringing the claim. It should also be struck out pursuant to CPR
3.4(2)(b), in that the statement of case is an abuse of the court's process or is otherwise
likely to obstruct the just disposal of the proceedings.
-
For those reasons I accede to the Defendant's application and I strike out the statement
of case that is the Claim Form and the Particulars of Claim. It follows, from that, that
the application to amend the Particulars of Claim, which I would otherwise have
permitted, even though there is no formal application before me, must fail, and I place
on the record that I dismiss that application.
I am further asked to record (and it is something that I am obliged under CPR Rule 3.4
to consider) whether this is a claim that is totally without merit. I do not for a moment
6
Page 134 of 380
Judgment approved by the court
Mr. Justice Marcus Smith
Webster v MOJ
suggest that the Claimant is actuated by anything other than a genuine sense of
grievance, but that fact is that disputes have to be articulated and resolved according to
the rule of law, and it seems to me that rules embodying the rule of law are in this case
extremely clear. I consider that the combination of section 9(1) and the decision in
Mazhar v Lord Chancellor make this an extremely clear decision, and I do record
therefore that the claim is one that is totally without merit.
7
Page 135 of 380
Judgment approved by the court
Mr. Justice Marcus Smith
Webster v MOJ
Epiq Europe Ltd hereby certify that the above is an accurate and complete record of the
proceedings or part thereof.
165 Fleet Street, London EC4A 2DY
Tel No: 020 7404 1400
Email: courttranscripts@epiqglobal.eu
This transcript has been approved by the Judge
8
Page 136 of 380
IN THE COUNTY COURT AT BRISTOL DISTRICT REGISTRY
Case No: B30BS071
Bristol Civil Justice Centre
2 Redcliff Street
Bristol
BS1 6GR
Friday, 9 March 2018
BEFORE:
DISTRICT JUDGE COPE
BETWEEN:
(1) PENLEY
(2) ASHCROFT
- and -
ST JOHN WEBSTER
UNIDENTIFIED COUNSEL appeared on behalf of the First Claimant
MR WOODING appeared on behalf of the Second Claimant
MR ST JOHN WEBSTER appeared in person
JUDGMENT (No. 1)
(Approved)
Claimants
Defendant
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London, EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance with
relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the case
concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the applicable
information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the internet, including
social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making sure that applicable
restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment.
For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask at the court office or take legal
advice.
1
Epiq Europe Ltd, Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 | www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 137 of 380
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
DISTRICT JUDGE COPE: The court is concerned with an application to set aside a
statutory demand dated 14 February 2017. For convenience, I shall refer to the parties
as the second claimant and the defendant. The defendant represents himself and the
second claimant is represented by Mr Wooding.
The first application for the court to consider is the defendant's application for an
adjournment of today's hearing. He wants to be represented by Mr Travis of counsel,
who was not available today, and I am told that Mr Travis has been assisting the
defendant on a pro bono basis.
Initially, following a written request, the solicitors acting for the second claimant were
agreeable to the matter being adjourned on the erroneous understanding that the matter
could be heard on 16 March 2018. At one point it looked like the court might not be
able to accommodate the case in any event, but importantly, at no time was the matter
ever taken out of the list and in the event, today's hearing could be maintained.
The defendant was told by Judge Matthews, that if he wished to pursue his informal
request, he would need to make an application, which he has now done. The
application is dated 8 March 2018, no fee has been paid, but he undertakes to pay it. It
was also made clear to the parties that such an application would be considered at the
start of the hearing. The application is now opposed by the second claimant.
The defendant makes seven points, which I have considered. I do not recite them for
the purpose of this judgment. There is no rule requiring the court to list matters for the
convenience of counsel. At best, it is a discretion which is usually limited to the listing
of trials. In my view, some assistance can be derived from the overriding objective,
which is to ensure cases are dealt with justly and proportionately.
I do not go through each of the overriding objective points slavishly, but consider the
matters in favour of the defendant to be, that without counsel he is perhaps not on an
equal footing with the second claimant. However, I see from an email sent by the
second claimant's solicitor, that the barrister in question has only represented the
defendant at one hearing. She says that at other hearings, the defendant has instructed
different counsel and has on many occasions represented himself. Indeed, the
defendant has ably set out his arguments in respect of the substantive application, even
if he has had some assistance from counsel in that respect.
There is also the importance of the case, which might arguably be said to carry more
weight for the defendant than the second claimant, as if the application is unsuccessful,
he will face bankruptcy. When one considers this application, whilst various points are
made by the defendant, there seems only to be one potentially complex issue and that is
whether the costs order made in August 2014 provides the second claimant with
security.
There are aspects of the overriding objective which are against the defendant, saving
expense being one, both parties are here today and the second claimant has instructed
2
Epiq Europe Ltd, Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 | www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 138 of 380
9.
10.
11.
12.
counsel. The defendant himself has attended, I believe from Essex, and taken time off
work. I also observe that if the case does not proceed, then the three hours which has
been set aside for this hearing today will be lost when the time could have been
allocated to other cases. I do not know when the matter could be relisted, the defendant
seems to think that April is a possibility from his enquiries with the court but that does
not detract from the fact that the time would be lost today and there would need to be
further time set aside at a future date. The bankruptcy hearing, which is scheduled on
20 March 2018, will also be lost.
It seems from the defendant's skeleton argument, that all sorts of people need to be
called as part of his application, or at least at some point. The three hours, from the
defendant's perspective, might even be thought to be inadequate, since he has told me
today that there are issues in respect of the land charges, which have been the subject
of litigation between the parties.
The value of the statutory demand is in the region of £7,000, which is not particularly
significant when one looks at the amounts of the other financial orders against the
defendant. One possibility might have been to allow the adjournment on the basis of
the defendant paying the second claimant's costs. However, from what I understand he
is not in a position to pay them, at least, there are various orders against him which
remain unsatisfied. There would, therefore, be prejudice to the second claimant if the
application is allowed.
The statutory demand is dated 14 February 2017. Due to the defendant being the
subject of an extended civil restraining order, which expires on 22 March 2019, the
matter has taken some time to be considered and listed. Delay is a real concern for the
court in this case.
The defendant's request to adjourn was made, I believe, on 17 February 2018, this was
despite the notice of hearing being dated 30 January 2018. The application itself
comes late, having been made yesterday. I have seen what he has to say about this, but
it is not something that persuades me that the application should be adjourned.
13. Taking all matters into account, I am far from satisfied that proceeding with the matter
today is an abuse of process, rather, it is entirely appropriate that the time today is used
to consider this application. I am not satisfied that the application should be adjourned
and it is dismissed.
3
Epiq Europe Ltd, Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 | www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 139 of 380
Epiq Europe Ltd hereby certify that the above is an accurate and complete record of the
proceedings or part thereof.
Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
This transcript has been approved by the Judge
4
Epiq Europe Ltd, Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 | www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 140 of 380
IN THE COUNTY COURT AT BRISTOL DISTRICT REGISTRY
Case No: B30BS071
Bristol Civil Justice Centre
2 Redcliff Street
Bristol
BS1 6GR
Friday, 9 March 2018
BEFORE:
DISTRICT JUDGE COPE
BETWEEN:
(1) PENLEY
(2) ASHCROFT
- and -
ST JOHN WEBSTER
UNIDENTIFIED COUNSEL appeared on behalf of the First Claimant
MR WOODING appeared on behalf of the Second Claimant
MR ST JOHN WEBSTER appeared in person
JUDGMENT (No. 2)
(Approved)
Claimants
Defendant
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London, EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance with
relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the case
concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the applicable
information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the internet, including
social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making sure that applicable
restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment.
For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask at the court office or take legal
advice.
1
Epiq Europe Ltd, Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 | www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 141 of 380
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
DISTRICT JUDGE COPE: The statutory demand in respect of this application was
issued on 14 February 2017 by the second claimant in the sum of £27,210.80 for
unpaid costs. It is now for the revised sum of £7,355 plus interest and is based on a
costs order made on 4 August 2014 in claim number HC09C0157.
The test for the court is set out under rule 6.5(4) of the Insolvency Rules 1986:
"The court may grant the application if: (a) the debtor appears to have a
counterclaim, set-off or crossed demand, which equals or exceeds the amount
of the debt specified in the statutory demand; (b) the debt is disputed on
grounds which appear to the court to be substantial; (c) it appears that the
creditor holds some security in relation to the debt claimed by the demand and
either rule 6.1(5) is not complied with in relation to it, or the court is satisfied
that the value of the security equals or exceeds the full amount of the debt or;
(d) the court is satisfied on other grounds that the demand ought to be set
aside."
It is a discretionary power and the test is whether it would be unjust in all the
circumstances to allow a statutory demand to give rise to the consequences that follow
and this is confirmed in Agilo Limited v Henry.
I have read the bundle of papers before the court; I have heard the submissions from
the defendant and Mr Wooding.
The defendant relies upon five grounds, four of those grounds can be disposed of
relatively quickly. The first ground does not assist the defendant. The second claimant
accepts that the correct amount outstanding is £8,844.24, which sum includes interest.
This sum remains in excess of the bankruptcy threshold, the statutory demand ought,
however, to be amended. The position was resolved in February or March of 2017. It
is no basis upon which to set the statutory demand aside.
The second ground is arguably the defendant's best point, I shall return to this in due
course.
6.
7.
The third ground is that a charging order already secures the judgment amounts. I have
already stated the basis for the demand, which is the costs order made on 4 August
2014. This is separate to the costs order arising from the proceedings before Judge
Pearl in July 2013, which were subsequently assessed in the sum of about £186,000 in
2015, which were secured by final charging orders in 2017, which I have seen. In fact,
with interest the amount now stands at in excess of £233,000. The charging orders are
not in respect of 4 August 2014, it is no basis upon which to set the statutory demand
aside.
The fourth ground is that there is a conflict of interest between the two claimants. It is
not framed in such a way for me to understand exactly how that falls within the legal
2
Epiq Europe Ltd, Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 | www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 142 of 380
8.
test to be considered by the court, but I make these observations. Both claimants are
entitled to take action in respect of the costs, it matters not that the first claimant does
not do so. There is no evidence to support the defendant's point that the solicitor
trustee 'is obviously benefitting from the punitive rate of interest'. In any event, both
claimants instruct separate solicitors. The costs that they have incurred have to be paid.
The rate claimed of eight per cent is the statutory rate, which compensates the estate for
late payment of the costs that were incurred defending the claim. The beneficiaries
will derive the benefit of the interest, not the trustees. Again, it is no basis upon which
to set aside the statutory demand.
The fifth ground is that the defendant has a counterclaim, which he describes as a
‘sustainable negligence claim against the trustees'. First, no proceedings have been
issued. The defendant has not set his cause of action, the basis of the claim or its value.
I have seen the invoices, which I am told by Mr Wooding, were considered by Judge
Birss in the valuation proceedings. In any event, the invoices are in the name of the
defendant's father's estate, so if any monies were due, they would be due to the estate
and not the defendant. If there is a claim against the trustees for say, their breach of
duty, then any benefit will be in favour of the estate as opposed to the defendant
himself.
9.
10.
11.
Today reference has been made to the claim being pursued by the defendant as a
disappointed beneficiary. Again, there is no claim and even if there was, it might be
thought that it would have to be for many millions in order for the sums he owes to be
cleared given his ultimate interest in this matter. However, such a claim would not
assist the defendant in respect of this application in any event, when it is not a direct
damages claim.
The defendant has also made reference to the claims for account, which I understand to
be the valuation proceedings, which were struck out by Judge Birss. The potential
claims provide no basis upon which to set aside the statutory demand. I note that there
is a Human Rights Act claim by the defendant against the Treasury Solicitor and the
Lord Chief Justice, but that has no direct relevance on the second claimant.
I return to the second ground, which is that the sum of £7,355 has been secured by way
of an indemnity pursuant to the order of 4 August 2014. The 4 August 2014 order, so
far as relevant provides, paragraph 4:
"The claimant do pay the first and second defendants' costs of the application,
summarily assessed in the sum of £7,355. Paragraph 5, the first and second
defendants, be entitled to recover their costs incurred in the action as an
administration expense on the indemnity basis insofar as the same are not
recovered from the claimant and paragraph 6, the first and second defendants
be entitled to apply the claimant's interest in the estate of the deceased in
discharge or partial satisfaction of any outstanding part of the sum payable in
paragraph 4 above."
3
Epiq Europe Ltd, Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 | www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 143 of 380
12. Rule 6.1(5) of the Insolvency Rules 1986 requires consideration. It states:
13.
14.
15.
"If the creditor holds any security in respect of the debt, the full amount of the
debt shall be specified, but, (a) there shall in the demand be specified the
nature of the security and the value which the creditor puts upon it as at the
date of the demand and (b) the amount of which payment is claimed by the
demand shall be the full amount of the debt, less the amount specified as the
value of the security."
I must also consider the definition of security. Section 383 of the Insolvency Act
provides:
"Subject to the next two sub-sections and any provision of the rules requiring
the creditor to give up his security for the purposes of proving a debt, the debt
is secured, for the purposes of this group of parts, to the extent that the person
to whom the debt is owed, holds any security for the debt, whether a mortgage,
charge, lien or other security over any property of the person by whom the
debt is owed."
Mr Wooding refers the court to the Court of Appeal case of Bristol Airport Plc v
Powerdrill and at paragraph 760, in which Sir Browne-Wilkinson stated:
"Security is created where a person ('the creditor') to whom an obligation is
owed by another ('the debtor') by statute or contract, in addition to the personal
promise of the debtor to discharge the obligation, obtains rights exercisable
against some property in which the debtor has an interest in order to enforce
the discharge of the debtor's obligation to the creditor."
I am not sure how helpful I find that definition, but I am satisfied that paragraph 5 of
the 2014 order does not meet the definition. The right is to recover the costs from the
estate, it is not property belonging to the defendant and the authorities Fagg v Rushton
and White v Davenham Trust Limited are clear, that security against a third party does
not assist the defendant. For the avoidance of doubt the estate, in my view, is a third
party.
The position in respect of paragraph 6 is less clear. On the basis of the Bristol Airport
case alone, I am not satisfied that the debt is secured. However, quite rightly, Mr
Wooding has made the court aware of an authority which may be of assistance to the
defendant, that is the Court of Appeal decision of Flightline v Edwards. The case did
not concern a statutory demand. A freezing order had been obtained by one party in a
commercial dispute on a without notice basis. By consent it was subsequently replaced
by an undertaking where the previously frozen money would be held in a joint account
and neither party would dispose of it. The court held that a freezing order does not
create a proprietary interest, but rather it simply held the ring. The same is the case
with the consent order and the undertaking, an equitable assignment did not constitute
4
Epiq Europe Ltd, Lower Ground, 18-22 Furnival Street, London EC4A 1JS
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 | www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 144 of 380
