80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
a witness statement out of time in the Taunton case. I had directed that the Taunton
proceedings were the proceedings in which to make that application.
The penultimate relief sought in the claim form B30BS107 was 'access to the property now
subject to B3BS071'. In other words, Mr Webster wanted to be allowed back in to collect,
as it seemed to me at the time of the original particulars of claim, papers and possessions
belonging to his father or alternatively for those things to stay there and for him to have
periodic access to go and look at them.
That claim and the amended particulars of claim seemed to grow to become more and more
a case of a right to remain in occupation there all the time.
The final relief sought in B30BS107 was an application for adverse possession of the
property.
In fairness to Mr Webster, he was in something of a difficult position because, believing
that he had to act and issue proceedings under the Land Registration Act within a certain
time limit, he was barred from doing so by virtue of the injunction which I had made against
him on 13 February 2015 in B30BS071 (trespass and slander of title). Therefore, in claim
B30BS107, he applied as it were effectively for a variation of my injunction which had
allowed him to carry on litigating the then extant proceedings but prohibiting him from
slandering title by any further proceedings without the permission of the Court.
However, the adverse possession claim, which he wanted to bring in proceedings
B30B$107, is the same adverse possession claim, which I have just described when dealing
with the Taunton proceedings and the application to amend the particulars of claim in
B30BS107. There is not, as I have indicated, any foundation for a claim for adverse
possession based upon the agreement.
It is something of a paradox that one should be in the realm of adverse possession against a
background of claims made for a beneficial entitlement under proprietary estoppel, a
16
Page 71 of 380
86.
87.
88.
89.
tenancy and a licence. A claim for adverse possession is not the most obvious bedfellow for
three permissive rights.
That is the adverse possession claim in respect of which Mr Webster wanted permission to
amend his particulars of claim, and as I say I have refused that permission. The new claims
are totally without merit.
Insofar as the other matters claimed in B30BS107are concerned, service of a witness
statement is not a cause of action. It has been dealt with already in the Taunton proceedings.
The service of a defence and counter-claim in the executors' action (B30BS071) is
something to which I will have to return.
In summary: (i) on 10 March 2015, Deputy District Judge Orme struck out the Taunton
proceedings as totally without merit, except for the question whether Mr Webster, as a bare
licensee had been evicted without due process of law; (ii) I have struck out the remnant of
the Taunton proceedings (the licence claim) as totally without merit; (iii) I have refused the
application to amend the particulars of claim as totally without merit.
I have effectively therefore disposed of all matters in action B30BS107, except for any
arrangements that have to be made for access to inspect materials which is a matter where
the parties themselves are going to have to accommodate each other. However, such access
will not be as of right. It will have to be a matter of agreement between Mr Webster and the
executors/trustees, who will have the authority to impose the relevant terms. However, I
know they will act reasonably in allowing him access or make the material available in
some other way.
The Trustees' High Court Claim for Trespass and Slander of Title (B30BS071 issued in Bristol)
against Mr Webster: Reconsideration of the Injunction Made on 13 February 2015
90.
The other matters that are before me today include the renewed consideration of the
injunction claim and the interim injunction, which I made on 13 February 2015 in those
17
Page 72 of 380
91.
92.
93.
94.
95.
proceedings.
I am prepared to consider the claim form in claim B30BS107 as an application to vary the
injunction. However, I refuse that application because the variation would permit Mr
Webster to commence a claim based on adverse possession, which, for the reasons I have
now laboriously repeated, is doomed to failure.
Another weakness of any claim based on adverse possession is this: The claim which Mr
Webster wants to make is under the Land Registration Act, but it is quite plain that there has
never been anything other than permissive occupation over the years by Valentine, by
Jennifer and by Mr Webster. It has always been with permission.
However, Mr Webster's concern was that he was evicted on 24 September 2014. He must
apply within six months to prevent there being any discontinuity in the period of his adverse
possession. Yet, he cannot do that, if he is a defendant in proceedings in respect of which
the right of possession is in issue. The trustee and executors' proceedings (B30BS071) are
such proceedings. That appears to be a complete answer.
Any occupation by Mr Webster been permissive as his mother's guest. He was not evicted.
His gratuitous and permissive licence merely came to an end when she left and, in any
event, absent anything greater than a permissive right, the trustees were entitled to require
him to leave on giving reasonable notice. This was not his primary residential
accommodation.
Whether viewed through the new informal buy-out adverse possession claim or viewed
through the conventional approach of adverse possession, it is plain that there were never 10
years or any periods of adverse possession. All occupation by Valentine, Jennifer and
Rupert was permissive as Jennifer herself plainly acknowledged in her affidavit or witness
statement. Whichever way one looks at it, a claim based on adverse possession is doomed
to failure.
18
Page 73 of 380
96.
97.
There is therefore no merit in any application to vary the injunction to allow Mr Webster to
make a claim, which is only going to be another piece of satellite litigation which is doomed
to failure.
That therefore deals with the reconsideration of injunction, which was listed for two
o'clock. It also deals largely with Mr Webster's own application, which was listed this
morning, for that relief, including the amendment of his particulars of claim. It also deals
with the Taunton proceedings where the District Judge referred to me the matter generally.
Extension of time for Mr Webster to file a Defence and Counterclaim in B30BS071
98.
99.
100.
I therefore turn to the final matter, which Mr Webster has asked me to consider, namely an
extension of time in which to file his defence and counter-claim to the claim brought by the
trustees for trespass and slander to title in B30BS071. His application acknowledges that he
is out of time.
Normally, the Court would not be averse, when dealing with a litigant in person however
experienced, to showing greater indulgence than might be appropriate when dealing with
professional advisers. Also, I remind myself that Mr Webster did try to get his procedural
tackle in order by making an application for an extension of time in B30BD107, even
though what he should have done was ask for permission in the litigation (B30BS071)
commenced by the trustees. I have before me a litigant in person who has done what he
thought was right, to try and get the Court's permission to file his defence late.
The difficulty which I face now is that if I need to grant an extension of time to Mr Webster
to file his defence and counter-claim in the trustee and executors' action for trespass and
slander of title, I have got really two options: first, to grant that relief unconditionally, in
which case it is obvious to me that all the arguments which I have just rejected will come
back in because Mr Webster is obsessive about this matter. That will inevitably trigger an
application by the trustees and executors to strike out part of the defence and counter-claim
19
Page 74 of 380
as being an abuse of the process of the court.
101. Secondly, I could extend time but make it plain that, although Mr Webster has an extension
of time to file his defence and counter-claim, that is on condition that he does not
incorporate within that defence and counter-claim anything which seeks to undermine Judge
Purle's decision either on proprietary estoppel or the will, does not seek to reinstate adverse
possession, does not seek to reinstate licence or a tenancy or any of the other arguments
which have been struck down by judicial decision thus far.
102.
103.
104.
105.
The difficulty with that second approach is that it is not really desirable for the Court to try
to define with sufficient precision what cannot be raised, because it is plain that Mr Webster
has a facility for looking at the same facts in a different light, and regarding it as something
which is quite different from what it was before, even though the Court is satisfied it is the
same argument.
The Court is therefore in real difficulty in seeking to define with any degree of accuracy the
sort of restriction it would want to impose upon what Mr Webster could put in his defence
and counter-claim.
That is where the application, which was made by the trustees over the short adjournment
today, comes to the fore. That is an application by the trustees and executors, in their action
for trespass and slander of title (B30BS071), for an abridgement of time to apply for
judgment to be entered in their favour, in default of the defence and counter-claim,
notwithstanding the fact that Mr Webster has already applied but in the wrong proceedings
for an extension of time.
Mr Webster has not put before the Court a draft of the document which he wants to file, so
the Court has no way of scrutinising what it is that it is giving permission for. No court
could allow an extension of time to file a document, when it has every reason to believe that
matters, which have been struck out, will be resurrected in some shape or form in that
20
20
Page 75 of 380
document.
106. Although I am dealing with a litigant in person (and a seasoned and determined one as well,
107.
108.
109.
110.
111.
who has always been very courteous and polite to me), who has applied for an extension of
time, the court has before it no draft pleading. Moreover, I have every reason to believe that
whatever is put in that pleading, it is going to be the subject matter of an application to
strike out by the trustee and executors, on the grounds of abuse of process in trying to
reopen matters which have already been struck out.
For those reasons, therefore, I think that the justice of the case and the overriding objective
is fulfilled by my entering judgment in default of defence.
That leaves it open to Mr Webster to apply for that judgment to be set aside. If he does
apply to set it aside, he is going to have to explain why his pleading was not done on time.
He may well be able to do that. However, he is also going to have to show that he has a
triable defence and counter-claim.
In other words, it will make Mr Webster do the running and have to get the permission of
the Court to get his claim in, rather than give him carte blanche to put a document in and
then leave it to the trustees to have to apply to strike out paragraphs.
It is an unusual course I am taking. However, I am taking it because of my knowledge of
this case and my assessment of what will happen, the past being in this case a very good
indication of what will happen in the future.
For those reasons, therefore, I do enter judgment for the claimants in default of defence in
claim B30BS071. The actual relief to be granted will have to be considered on a different
occasion but the injunction which I have granted will continue. It may well be that directing
that the injunction continues permanently, unless that judgment is set aside, is all that needs
to be said.
There followed discussion between Judge and counsel, transcribed separately.
21
21
Page 76 of 380
Permission to Appeal against dismissal of all Mr Webster's claims
1.
2.
3.
4.
This is an application for permission to appeal made by Mr Webster against my decisions to
dismiss all his applications and to enter judgment against him.
The first point is that he challenges my finding that the property was not his primary home.
The observation about whether it was or was not his primary home is not a principal finding
of any particular relevance. It is simply an observation made by me in quantifying what
would be reasonable notice to a licensee to leave the premises. The reason why it is not a
primary finding is that, on his own case, Mr Webster does not claim to have a licence from
the claimants who are the freeholders. Therefore he is, by his own admission, a trespasser in
respect of whom only minimal notice would have to be given. He is a trespasser since he
does not claim to have a licence or right of occupation from the freeholder.
However, I have said that this may be too narrow a view, because there may be the basis for
an implied licence, given the familial situation. However, even then, in all the
circumstances when there is other accommodation open to him and this is not his primary
home, the notice 10 September 2014, read in the light of the letter of 15 August 2014, was
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Accordingly, I refuse permission to appeal on that ground, because it is not an essential
finding, given Mr Webster's acceptance that he never had the permission of the freeholders
to be there anyway.
The second matter, which he raises, is that I am wrong in concluding that all occupation by
him, by his mother and father was with the permission of the freeholders, or, put slightly
differently, that I am wrong in concluding that he has no arguable case on adverse
possession. The claim for adverse possession is doomed to failure on any basis other than
the new claim developed at greater length today of the informal buy-out agreement point.
When the buy-out point is subjected to analysis, it is plain from the submissions which Mr
22
22
Page 77 of 380
5.
Webster has himself made that there is no evidential basis for there being an antecedent
agreement between Valentine and his grandparents, let alone anything which constitutes
consideration which would make it an enforceable agreement or one which could therefore
form the basis of adverse possession, because it is only the payment of all the purchase
money that would thereafter make possession adverse. If there had been no payment, any
occupation would be permissive, and therefore not adverse, given that the court has found
no proprietary estoppel.
For those reasons, I refuse permission to appeal on this ground too.
In my judgment, any appeal has no real prospect of success on either of those points, nor is
there any other reason why the appeal should be heard.
Permission to appeal against the Extended Civil Restraint Order
6. As far as the extended civil restraint order is concerned, I have obviously been obliged to
consider it because the rules require me to do so when I find that an application has been
dismissed as being totally without merit.
7. There are a number of applications in this case, which have been dismissed as totally
without merit by me and by Deputy District Judge Orme.
8. In the judgment of Judge Purle QC, he referred to the obsession which Mr Webster had
about those proceedings. An extended civil restraint order is specifically tailored to deal
with someone who has an obsessive streak about a particular issue, rather than about
litigation generally. That is why I have made it clear that the civil restraint order operates in
relation to the trustees and executors as office-holders in relation to the property. It does
not bite on any personal claim, which Mr Webster may have for professional negligence
against anybody.
9. Therefore, I have tailored the restraint to the necessary minimum. Even if an application
were made to me for permission to appeal against the civil restraint order, I would refuse
23
Page 78 of 380
permission to appeal.
10. As a result, there is no reason to discount the costs figure of £31,000 to reflect any prospects
of a successful appeal, because it seems to me there are none.
11. Accordingly, the order that I make is the standard order, namely that those costs be paid
within 14 days. Of course, that is asking a lot, but it does mean that there has to be
meaningful negotiations to see how it is going to be paid.
24
24
Page 79 of 380
[2015] EWHC 2745 (CH)
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
Case No: HC14B01306/07 & 09
BEFORE:
MR JUSTICE BIRSS
7 Rolls Buildings
Fetter Lane
London
EC4A 1NL
Thursday, 11th June 2015
BETWEEN:
RUPERT WEBSTER
Claimant/Respondent
- and -
JOHN PENLEY
Defendant/Appellant
MR A. WALDER (instructed by Bar District Access Scheme) appeared on behalf of the
Claimant
MR O. WOODING (instructed by Bond Dickinson LLP) appeared on behalf of the
Defendant
Judgment
(As Approved)
Digital Transcript of WordWave International Ltd trading as DTI
8th Floor, 165 Fleet Street, London EC4A 2DY
Web: www.DTIGlobal.com
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 Fax No: 020 704 1424
Email: TTP@dtiglobal.eu
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
No of words: 5124
No of folios: 72
Page 80 of 380
MR JUSTICE BIRSS:
1.
نه
3.
4.
5.
6.
I have before me a set of three parallel claims, all brought by Mr Rupert Joylon St John
Webster against Mr John Francis Penley. I will refer to the defendant as Mr Penley but
to the claimant as Rupert, without meaning any disrespect to him. Rupert is the
grandson of Mr Anthony and Mrs Valerie Webster. Mr Valentine Webster was one of
their children. Rupert is one of Valentine's sons.
The family owned a property near Taunton in Somerset known as the Priory for many
year. Mr Penley, and indeed his father, were solicitors who acted for the Webster
family for very many years. In May 2013 HHJ Pearl QC heard a trial of an action
brought by Rupert, which was a trial of a proprietary estoppel claim and also of a claim
relating to the validity of a will which related to rights in the Priory. By the time of the
trial before HHJ Pearl, Anthony, Valerie and Valentine had all died and the property
was dealt with in accordance with their wills in the manner described in HHJ Pearl's
judgment. The learned judge rejected the claim for proprietary estoppel and the claim
for the invalidity of Valerie's will. The importance of that judgment is that meant that
Rupert's claims were dismissed.
What has happened subsequently is that Rupert has brought these three actions against
Mr Penley, the solicitor. They are part 7 claims which state that they claim a valuation
of the estates of the three dead people. The claim with an action number ending ‘306
relates to the estate of Valentine; the claim with an action number ending $307 relates
to the estate of Valerie; and the claim with an action number ending ‘309 relates to the
estate of Anthony Webster. Although before HHJ Pearl the claimant Rupert was
represented, these new claims have been brought by Rupert acting as a litigant in
person. He drafted the Particulars of Claim himself, as far as I know, and reading them
they do appear to have been written by a litigant in person.
The defendant submits that these claims should all be struck out and applied to strike
them out in September 2014. The application is supported by two witness statements
from Mr Penley. A witness statement, in reply from Rupert was filed relatively
recently.
There are two essential bases on which the application to strike out is brought. First, it
is contended that there are some significant procedural difficulties. However, without
diminishing their significance, it is fair to say that if the proceedings are to go forward,
or should go forward, then they are all difficulties which can be addressed. They
include, among other things, the point that if the proceedings are to go forward then
Virginia, who is, along with Mr Penley, the executor of Anthony and Valerie, ought to
be a defendant as well. There is also a question of the capacity of Mr Penley in these
proceedings, and the matter is further complicated by the fact that although Virginia
was not named in these proceedings, a notice of discontinuance purporting to
discontinue the claim, even though she was not a party to it but naming her as one of
the parties against whom it was discontinued, was filed. Nevertheless Mr Walder has
advanced reasons before me, which at this stage I will simply say that I can see the
force of, that if the case is to proceed the procedural difficulties can be resolved.
The second issue is an issue of substance. The defendant submits that this action is an
attempt to re-litigate the issues which were decided conclusively and finally by HHJ
2
Page 81 of 380
7.
8.
9.
Pearl. I will mention, though strictly it is irrelevant, that an application for permission
to appeal HHJ Pearl's order was made and was ultimately refused at an oral hearing in
the Court of Appeal.
The Particulars of Claim include allegations of the existence of an agreement, defined
in the pleading as Anthony's Agreement. This agreement, if it existed, would have had
essentially the same effect as the claim for proprietary estoppel which was addressed
by HHJ Pearl. The proprietary estoppel claim, at its root, was a claim that the Priory
had been promised to Valentine and should have been given to him (Valentine) in
accordance with the relevant wills. If it had been, then, as I understand it, the Priory
would ultimately have devolved to Rupert, but it was not and so it has not devolved to
Rupert. The proprietary estoppel claim was a claim on the basis that Valentine and his
wife had the right to that property and, as I say, that was rejected. The agreement is
pleaded in the Particulars of Claim in these three actions. The three sets of Particulars
of Claim are essentially identical in paragraphs 1 to 30. They then contain differences
in what could be called a prayer for relief in paragraphs 31 onwards. These latter parts
are essentially in identical form but addressed at the three distinct estates of the three
deceased individuals.
There is no doubt that if the agreement existed or exists it would cut across the
judgment of HHJ Pearl but it is fair to say that other matters are also raised in the
Particulars of Claim too.
When the application to strike out was originally brought it was advanced primarily on
a basis of Henderson v Henderson. That was a recognition that some of the allegations,
which were complained about in the Particulars, but not all, were not directly decided
by HHJ Pearl but were of a kind which could and should be raised in those
proceedings. I will refer to these as the "Further Matters". However since then things
have moved on because there have been further proceedings in addition to the original
claim before HHJ Pearl. There have been possession proceedings relating to the Priory
which were struck out in part by District Judge Woodburn in Taunton, save for certain
remaining aspects which finally came before HHJ Cahill QC and were struck out in
March 2015. There was a Land Charges application brought by the defendants to the
original claim, following judgment, to vacate entries on the Land Charges Register
which had been entered by Rupert. That application was granted by Deputy Chancery
Master Matthews in August 2014. Then there was what are described as the Taunton
proceedings, in which Rupert brought proceedings against Mr Penley and Virginia for
possession of part of the Priory. They were issued in September 2014 in the county
court at Taunton and ultimately struck out and recorded as being totally without merit.
Then there was a claim brought by Mr Penley and Virginia against Rupert issued in the
Chancery Division Bristol District Registry in February of this year, whereby the
claimants in that claim obtained an interim and then permanent injunction against
Rupert, preventing him from trespassing on the Priory or slandering title after a default
judgment. Finally there was another claim brought by Rupert against Mr Penley and
Virginia issued in the Bristol Chancery District Registry which was a combination of
applications relating to the Taunton proceedings and to the injunction claim I have
mentioned. That claim was struck out, save for an application to amend the injunction.
Permission to amend was refused and the application marked as totally without merit.
3
Page 82 of 380
10.
11.
12.
13.
14.
15.
16.
In the light of all those proceedings, the defendant's position is that many more of the
Further Matters are now res judicata than was the case when the application was
originally brought. A particular point being the issue of possession.
Yesterday Rupert had the benefit of Direct Access assistance from counsel, Mr Walder.
Mr Walder filed a skeleton argument on behalf of his client late yesterday afternoon,
(but not so late that I could not read it). I am grateful for Mr Walder for taking the
trouble to do that; it has been of significant assistance.
The important point before me now is that the position is rather different from the way
it appeared when I started reading these papers. Mr Webster's position, as advanced by
counsel, is not to challenge the submission that the large majority of the issues raised in
the Particulars of Claim are the subject of res judicata or issue estoppel. Mr Walder
characterises these points as background. That would not be unreasonable if it was
clear that they did not raise issues which a court would have to decide. I should also
have said at the outset that Mr Rupert Webster feels extremely strongly about this
whole dispute over the years. However, what Mr Walder says on Mr Webster's behalf
is that in amongst, or at the core of, Mr Webster's complaints in these proceedings, and
in particular as explained in a witness statement, which was filed on 3 June, in
particular the last paragraph of that statement, is a claim for an account from the
executors of the various estates, in particular Anthony's and Valerie's estates (there is
really no basis at all for putting this argument forward as a claim for an account in
relation to Valentine's estate).
In terms of procedural issues, such a claim would also require Virginia to be joined as a
defendant and would require Mr Penley's capacity in these proceedings to be resolved
in a proper way. Nevertheless since Mr Rupert Webster is a beneficiary under those
two estates or the relevant trusts, he has the right, as Mr Wooding for the defendant
accepts, to seek an account. Rupert also seeks declarations relating to the manner in
which various items in the estate have been treated. This takes me to the real point.
The argument that is advanced on Mr Webster's behalf is that when the Priory was
valued for the purposes of inheritance tax back in 2007, it was valued on the basis of
being sold with vacant possession, whereas at that stage Valentine and his wife, and I
think possibly also, though it may not matter, Rupert, were living in the Priory. At that
time their right to be there was the subject of the claim that was decided later by HHJ
Pearl.
Although it has now been decided by a court of competent jurisdiction that there was
no proprietary estoppel and possession has now been granted, and it cannot be said
without traversing the previous judgments of the courts that there was any right in
Valentine or his wife, or anyone else (such as Rupert), to reside in the Priory either by
adverse possession, contract or anything else, nevertheless it is argued that the
valuation of the Priory at that time should have taken into account the existence of the
contingent claim which the executors were aware of. Therefore the valuation was too
high and as a result it attracted more inheritance tax than it should have done.
Mr Walder urges me on behalf of his client that what I should do is permit these
proceedings to continue on the footing that they are recast as a claim by Rupert for an
account and also for declarations which cover the ground I have just described. He
4
Page 83 of 380
17.
also submits the declarations should encompass other issues which Rupert has raised in
his witness statement about the way in which certain other items would have been
treated in the accounts; but the important and only really significant one for the purpose
of what I have to decide today is this question of vacant possession.
Mr Wooding submits that I should not permit these proceedings to continue. He
submits that it is clear that this case should be struck out. He accepts that Rupert has
the right to seek an account, but submits that if Rupert wishes to deal with the
questions that he raises about the valuation of the Priory, that can only be on the basis
of a claim for breach of duty by the trustees or executors of the relevant estates, and no
such breach of duty has been pleaded in these Particulars of Claim. He submits that
what is really going on is an attempt to raise an unpleaded breach of duty claim.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
Another factor that I should address is this. In relation to Valerie's estate, there is an
extended civil restraint order put in place by the judge in Bristol in the Taunton
proceedings. One of the things the defendant has asked to do, if I strike out the action,
is to consider whether to make an extended civil restraint order against Rupert relating
to the matters in these claims. Such an order would go wider than covering Valerie's
estate and may include Anthony's and Valentine's estate. I will say at this stage that I
do not regard the existence of the civil restraint order as being of any relevance to the
decision what to do about the strike out.
Furthermore, if I decide to strike out the whole of these proceedings then any ECRO
should not prevent Mr Rupert Webster from being entitled to an account. It is
recognised that he has the right to seek an account. Whether it would prevent him from
bringing a claim to breach of duty in future in relation to the executors of Valerie's
estate would be a matter for the judge managing the extended civil restraint order. To
take into account the possible existence of a civil restraint order in deciding what to do
on the strike out would not be right.
I am satisfied that a substantial body of the Particulars of Claim should be struck out.
Despite the submission that they are mere background, it is quite clear that the majority
of the allegations made in the Particulars of Claim seek to reopen questions which have
already been conclusively decided in the various proceedings I have mentioned before.
Accordingly, whatever is to happen today a substantial quantity, at least in terms of
words, of the Particulars of Claim should be struck out.
The question is whether I should strike out the totality of these proceedings or whether
I should permit the claimant to recast the proceedings in the manner described by Mr
Walder, subject to clear orders from the court circumscribing what it is exactly the
claimant can raise. I have to say that initially I was attracted to the idea of permitting
Rupert to recast these proceedings as a claim for an account, but in the end I have
decided that that would not be the right thing to do. It would not be fair on the
defendant, nor I think would it be a sensible use of a court's resources.
If what the claimant really wanted was, and was only, an account relating to the estates
then I can see that that could be a reason for taking the course of not striking out the
entirety of the proceedings and permitting the claim to continue as a claim for an
account only. However, it is quite obvious that that is not what Rupert is seeking to
5
Page 84 of 380
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
achieve. What Rupert wants is a determination of what is in fact a claim for breach of
duty against the executors. I am not prepared to allow that to play a part in these
proceedings; it is simply not what these proceedings have ever been.
Mr Walder has elegantly shown me in the pleadings how it could be said, although it
was not at all clear, that the points he raises on behalf of his clients about vacant
possession and valuation and the way in which they affect the value of the account can
be found in amongst the various allegations made in the Particulars of Claim and in the
witness statement, but they were by no means clear. But I can see that if all I had to do
was decide whether to permit an account to go forward on the basis that there was
some reason why Rupert wanted an account, then perhaps that would be done.
However a claim merely for an account would not justify Rupert doing what he really
wants to do, which is to see declaratory relief in these proceedings declaring that the
value attributed to the property was wrong in 2007 (and the other matters). The only
basis upon which that could be relevant would on the basis of a claim for breach of
duty by the executors; but there is no such claim. To permit these proceedings to be
recast in that way would go far too far.
Accordingly the correct and fair thing to do is to strike out all three of these
proceedings. The basis on which I am striking them out is that the allegations in them
are an abuse of process because they are either seeking to re-litigate issues which have
already been conclusively decided or, in relation to the balance of the issues, are an
abuse of process in that they are matter which could and should have been raised
before. Therefore the whole proceeding should be struck out.
The effect of this judgment is not to prevent Rupert Webster from seeking an account
and, if it is not provided, bringing a claim for an account from the executors of any
estate of which he is a beneficiary.
For all these reasons I will strike out these three proceedings.
I am invited to hold, in the decision I have just made, that these proceedings were
totally without merit. The defendant invites me to characterise the proceedings in that
way. Mr Walder, on behalf of his client, correctly makes the point that just because
proceedings are res judicata and therefore need to be struck out it does not follow
necessarily that the proceedings were totally without merit. I accept that submission.
However, it seems to me that, bearing in mind the context of this whole proceedings,
and particularly having read them, that these Particulars of Claim were totally without
merit. They simply sought to re-litigate issues which Rupert knew very well had
already been litigated before HHJ Pearl and which he had lost. In particular, I refer to
the reference to the alleged agreement, defined as the Anthony agreement, which cuts
across entirely the judgment of HHJ Pearl. All three of these proceedings were totally
without merit.
[further argument]
I now need to decide whether to make an extended civil restraint order against Mr
Rupert Webster. It arises out of the judgment that I have given earlier today; I will not
repeat it. It is essentially a further aspect of that judgment. The defendant submits that
6
Page 85 of 380
