mentioned. Those cases make it clear that it is not appropriate to when consider proprietary
estoppel on too compartmentalised a basis and that a holistic approach, standing back from
the evidence as a whole, is more appropriate. Ultimately the question is whether the
conduct of the representors is such that equity would regard it as unconscionable to deny
the existence of the interest which is alleged.
13.
Mr Hill accepts that if his appeal were to succeed on this basis, this court would be in no
position to conduct the holistic assessment which he argues the judge failed to carry out. A
retrial would be the inevitable consequence.
14.
Attractively though the matter was put, I have to say I do not consider that an appeal
against the judgment would have a realistic prospect of success. The judge saw the
witnesses, saw the available documents and must have had in mind all the matters to which
the skeleton argument refers. In the end he found the case was not made out on the facts. I
am unable to detect any error of principle in the judge's approach, which would justify this
court intervening and ordering a new trial. Plainly, the prospect of a new trial is one which
it is not attractive to countenance but I refuse permission on the basis that this court would
have no basis on which to interfere with the judge's order and there is no other reason why
this court should grant permission to appeal.
Page 31 of 380
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE – CHANCERY DIVISION
Case No: HC09C01570
Royal Courts of Justice
7 Rolls Building
Fetters Lane
London
EC4A 1NL
BETWEEN:
Before:
:
DEPUTY MASTER MATTHEWS
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
and
ALISON ASHCROFT
JOHN PENLEY
Transcript from a recording by Ubiqus
61 Southwark Street, London SE1 OHL
Tel: 020 7269 0370
MR WEBSTER appeared In Person
MR OLIVER WOODING appeared on behalf of the Applicants
JUDGMENT
(Approved)
1
Monday, 4th August 2014
Page 32 of 380
DEPUTY MASTER MATTHEWS:
1.
2.
3.
4.
This is an application by notice dated 9 May 2014 by the first and second defendants,
Alison Ashcroft and John Penley, to vacate land charges in an action which was brought by
the claimant, Mr Rupert Webster, against a number of defendants, not only the first and
second defendants, as applicants, but also others, in respect of certain pieces of land which
have been in his family for something like 60-odd years.
The main part of the action was the subject of a decision by His Honour Judge Purle. That
decision was that the claims brought by Mr Rupert Webster, which were based largely on
proprietary estoppel and also on want of knowledge and approval of a will, should fail.
Mr Webster had protected the position in the pending litigation by means of four land
charges. These four charges were placed on the property concerned at the time of the
litigation. Then, in a letter subsequent to the decision of Judge Purle, dated 24 June 2014,
Mr Webster, the respondent to this application, said:
'I accept from that that the land charges pending action AB are out of date
and should now be replaced with a land charge pending action pursuant to
the European Court, as well as three further land charges pending actions
pursuant to the three valuation claims."
I will come back to the reference to pending actions pursuant to the three valuation
claims.
The position therefore appears to be that Mr Webster accepts that the four charges which
were registered in the land charges register (because the property is unregistered land), in
protecting the rights claimed in the litigation, should go. But he is unwilling for them to go
before they can be replaced by new charges in relation to proceedings which he intends to,
but has not yet brought, before the European Court of Human Rights, and (it may also be)
the other claims which I have referred to above in respect of valuation. Presumably this is
because Mr Webster does not want there to be any gap in the protection which is afforded
2
Page 33 of 380
5.
6.
7.
by the charges, so as to allow the property, for example, to be sold in the meantime when
the property is not covered by any protection.
However, I am faced with the application being made by the applicants to vacate those
charges and I must deal with it judicially. In my judgment there is absolutely no defence to
the application to vacate those four charges from the land charges register. They are as
plain a case as could possibly be, and well within the jurisdiction of the master, which is to
vacate charges in the land charges register only in plain cases. Accordingly, I will make the
order in respect of the four existing land charges.
Two more recent charges, however, are in a different position. They are not charges in
respect of any land claims, but charges directed at protecting a substantive legal right. At
page 113 of the bundle, I see from Form K1 (the application for registration of the land
charge) that the particulars of the chargee are given as Mr Webster himself, and the
particulars of the charge are given in this way: ‘an equitable charge as a tenant for life in
actual occupation, having an overriding interest pursuant to an equitable licence,' and the
class and subclass which are given in the application are Class C(iii).
Now, the position is quite clear. The Land Charges Act 1972, which is the relevant
legislation, defines a Class C(iii) land charge in the following way. In Section 2(4) of the
Land Charges Act (as amended) it is provided that:
‘A Class C land charge is any of the following (not being a local land
charge), namely
[...]
(iii) a general equitable charge;
[ ]
and for this purpose
[ ]
(iii) a general equitable charge is any equitable charge which
(a) is not secured by a deposit of documents relating the legal estate
affected; and
(b) does not arise or affect an interest arising under a trust of land or a
settlement; and
(c) is not a charge given by way of indemnity against rents equitably
3
Page 34 of 380
8.
9.
10.
apportioned or charged exclusively on land in exoneration of other land and
against the breach or non-observance of covenants and conditions; and
(d) is not included in any other class of land charge.'
Now, it is clear beyond any doubt that the kind of charge which is claimed in this
application for the registration of the land charge is not a Class C(iii) land charge. It
therefore falls at the first hurdle, that what is being claimed cannot be such a charge. There
are also other difficulties with the description of the charge, because the words used, such as
'actual occupation' and 'having an overriding interest', are words which are entirely
inapposite for unregistered land such as this is, or at any rate was at the time of the
application in May, and in my judgment this claim to a land charge of Class C(iii) must fail.
It simply does not get through the gateway required for such charges. Accordingly, it is a
plain case for vacating the charge.
I should also say that it does not seem to me that the substantive rights which are meant by
these words, that is to say rights of enjoyment of the land by virtue of some claim to being a
tenant for life, whether pursuant to an equitable licence or otherwise, are simply not the
kind of rights which are the subject of land charges under the Land Charges Act. It is not
designed for this kind of protection of this kind of substantive right. On the contrary, it is
concerned much more with certain types of commercial rights rather than family rights.
Accordingly, in my judgment, and without going in any way into the substance of the claim
to this right, as I do not have to examine the facts of the case, it seems to me right that I
should make the order vacating these two charges too.
I have said that I do not need to go into the facts, but even at a cursory glance it seems to
me, and without making any kind of finding or determination, that the substance behind
these applications for further land charges is perilously thin and confused, even to the point
of incoherence. There is danger in pursuing any such claim in the future, simply because of
the risks of legal costs being awarded. At the same time it is the right of the claimant, Mr
4
Page 35 of 380
11.
12.
Webster, to pursue such claims as he may be advised. That is a matter for him.
I referred above to certain other claims relating to valuation. I have been taken to the claim
forms in these three further actions, which were all issued in March 2014. These actions
were in fact issued sometime after the further two land charges were registered and they
relate to claims that the valuations of the three estates of the claimant's grandfather,
grandmother and father are wrong. It is not entirely clear to me exactly how these claims
are put, but it seems to me that there is a real problem if the valuations do not actually raise
rights of the substantive kind which are claimed in these registration of land charges. This is
because, if they do not raise such rights, they are not supporting the claims which are made
in the land charges. If, on the other hand, they do raise substantive rights of this kind, the
danger is that they are in fact simply seeking to re-litigate the decision of His Honour Judge
Purle. However, I do not need to decide anything in relation to these further claims because,
as I have said, I can order the vacation of the two further charges because they simply do
not fit Class C(iii).
Therefore, in my judgment, I should make orders vacating all six of the land charges
concerned.
End of judgment.
5
Page 36 of 380
Neutral Citation Number: [2015] EWHC 678 (Ch)
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
BRISTOL DISTRICT REGISTRY
BEFORE:
HIS HONOUR JUDGE McCAHILL QC
BETWEEN:
Case No: B30BS071
Bristol Civil and Family Justice Centre
2 Redcliff Street
Bristol BS1 6GR
Friday, 13 February 2015
(1) JOHN PENLEY
(2) ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT
- and -
RUPERT ST.JOHN WEBSTER
Claimants/Applicants
Defendant/Respondent
MR O WOODING (instructed by Clarke Willmott LLP) appeared on behalf of the Claimant
MR WEBSTER appeared in person
Approved Judgment
Crown Copyright
Digital Transcript of WordWave International, a Merrill Communications Company
101 Finsbury Pavement London EC2A 1ER
Tel No: 020 7421 6131 Fax No: 020 7421 6134
Web: www.merrillcorp.com/mls Email: mlstape@merrillcorp.com
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
25
No of words: 3,071
No of folios: 43
Page 37 of 380
JUDGE McCAHILL QC:
The Injunction Application and the London Proceedings
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
There is before the court today an application for a temporary injunction by John
Francis Henry, a solicitor, and Alison Virginia Ashcroft, known mainly as Virginia,
against Rupert St John Webster, the defendant. Virginia is the aunt of the defendant.
Mr Penley is a solicitor who has been involved with the affairs of the wider family and
its rural estate for many years. There is a complicated series of trusts, wills and
antecedent litigation concerning the family. It suffices to say that there came a time
when this defendant, Mr Webster, on behalf of the estate of his late father, Valentine,
commenced proceedings in the High Court claiming that his late father, Valentine, had
acquired by proprietary estoppel an equitable right in the farmhouse and land on the
estate.
Those proceedings were determined by his Honour Judge Purle QC, sitting as a judge
of the High Court. He dismissed the claim for estoppel by the estate of Valentine,
observing in his judgment that the claim had certain difficulties.
The person primarily asserting the claim, Valentine, was dead, and the person against
whom it was being asserted, namely Ventine's mother, Valerie, was also dead. The
judge commented that it was not the most promising start for a case based upon
estoppel when the two protagonists were dead.
Having reviewed all the evidence in the case, the judge dismissed the case for estoppel
and ordered an interim payment of £75,000 on account of costs to be paid. I am told
that those costs have not yet been paid in those proceedings.
In paragraph 27 of his judgment, Judge Purle QC said this:
"Rupert's evidence, extensive though it was, was not particularly
helpful, so far as it was based on his own recollections or recollections
of what he had been told by Valentine. Rupert appears to have
developed an obsession with this case and the family history
underpinning it, which is all consuming. I did feel that, though he was
plainly honest, this could affect his judgment."
Trespass and Obstruction
7.
8.
The claim before me is effectively one requiring the defendant not to trespass upon the
property, the subject matter of that litigation, which is currently registered in the name
of these two claimants as executors and trustees. It was previously unregistered land.
Mr Webster had then made a number of entries on the Land Charges Register, which
were themselves the subject matter of summary proceedings before the Registrar to
have them vacated. They were vacated and the title was then registered clean, save for
those encumbrances which the claimants accept were properly registered against it.
However, the claimants are concerned that, unless restrained, the defendant will try
again to place unwarranted entries on the registered title. This is a matter of grave
concern to the claimants, because they are in the process of trying to sell the property.
It has been and is being marketed through Savills. Indeed, there was an incident earlier
26
Page 38 of 380
9.
10.
11.
12.
in May 2014, when the defendant approached the representative of Savills, Mr
Addlington, on the site, to assert that Mr Addington or Savills had no right to sell the
property.
The claim by the claimant trustees is to keep the defendant off the land on to which he
has trespassed. There are undoubtedly many issues of factual dispute. The defendant
denies that he is trespassing or has trespassed. He asserts, no doubt, that he is entitled
to be on the land by some right in law.
The claimants allege that he has no right to be there. Indeed, following an agreement
reached between his mother, Jennifer, and the claimants in September 2014, his mother
left the premises, As far as the claimants are concerned, this defendant was not living
there or occupying those premises at that particular time.
The current position is that the second claimant, Virginia, is living in the property as
her home, almost as a caretaker, to safeguard it. She is, if I may say so, of a certain age.
She has to confront the defendant, as he comes and goes, or tries to come and go, on to
the premises or into the house as he pleases, often in hours of darkness and/or at times
when other guests are present. That is not only a matter of embarrassment, but also a
source of concern to the second claimant.
The particular allegations of trespass relied upon by the claimants are summarised in
paragraph 18 of Mr Wooding's skeleton argument, where the relevant evidence, which
I have read, is identified. Paragraph 18 deals with the specific episodes of alleged
trespass on 23 September 2014, 23 January 2015, 27 January 2015 and 28 January
2015.
13. In addition, the claimants rely upon the defendant's interference with the sale process.
The particulars of interference are set out in paragraph 20 of the skeleton argument,
where the evidence, which I have considered, is also summarised. They include
issuing in London three High Court claims called "the valuation claims", which are
themselves currently the subject of an application to strike out by these claimants. Mr
Webster has challenged the entitlements under the estate, because they failed to take
into account his alleged right or that of his late father's estate through an estoppel
claim. The incident on 28 May 2014, when Mr Webster confronted Mr Addington of
Savills, is relied on by the claimants as a further example of interference.
14.
Moreover, on 13 January 2015, Mr Webster contacted BT to install a separate
telephone line to the property and, on 30 January 2015,went to the police station
attempting to persuade the police that he had a right of access to the property.
15. Today is not the day on which I decide the truth, accuracy or falsity of those
allegations.
16.
All I am concerned with is whether those allegations, which are no doubt denied by the
defendant, are arguably true and whether they raise a serious issue to be tried.
Adjournment
17.
For his part, the defendant said that I should not even be dealing with the case today
because of a variety of reasons.
27
27
Page 39 of 380
18. First, he said that he only received the papers yesterday, that the papers are voluminous
and that he was staying with a friend in Winchester at the time they were served at hid
grandmother's home. He said that he needed to obtain legal representation, either pro
bono or by legal aid or to prepare to represent himself. To use his own phrase, "he
needs to lawyer up”.
19. Secondly, he has already commenced proceedings under CPR Part 55 in the County
Court at Taunton. Those summary proceedings are against the same claimants in this
case. He seeks possession of the very property as is the subject matter of this claim.
There is a hearing returnable before the district judge in Taunton on 10 March 2015,
where either that claim will be struck out by the district judge or he will give directions
for a trial of the issues or he may be persuaded to grant Mr Webster the summary relief
claimed. Those are the three probabilities. However, the district judge in Taunton is
going to be confronted not only with Mr Webster's amended Particulars of Claim, but
also with an amended Defence from these executors/trustees. They will no doubt show
the judge the judgment of Judge Purle QC, contending that this is yet another attempt
to relitigate matters which were disposed of by Judge Purle QC, and in respect of
which the Court of Appeal refused permission to appeal.
20. Thirdly, Mr Webster argued that these proceedings today are wrong, because they
should have been the subject matter of a counterclaim and brought within the Part 55
proceedings in the County Court at Taunton. Those summary proceedings in the
County Court would normally be listed before a district judge, who, when the matter
comes before him on 10 March 2015, will not, as I understand it, have the power to
grant the injunction which is sought in these proceedings. So, although by case
management, this matter could have been brought perhaps within the Taunton
proceedings, today's application before me for injunctive relief could not be dealt
with by the district judge, because the district judge does or may not have the
jurisdiction to grant an injunction.
21.
22.
23.
For those reasons, as well as asserting that there is an answer to all the claimants'
points, Mr Webster has submitted that I should adjourn the case and transfer it to
Taunton. Or, if I do not do that, adjourn it to another day to enable him to get
representation and for the matter to come back before me. Adiitionally, he asked for his
costs of today.
I do not accept Mr Webster's submissions.
I appreciate that this is a case where, according to Mr Webster, he first saw the papers
yesterday. Howevery I have seen the witness statement of Nigel John Wills of Devon
Investigations, who said this:
"A copy of the claim form together with particulars of claim
with exhibits, together with a claimants' application notice for an
injunction, together with the witness statement of John Francis
in support of application notice, together with the witness
statement of Alison Virginia Ashcroft in support of the
application notice, together with the witness statement of
Richard Addington in support of the application notice, together
28
Page 40 of 380
24.
25.
with the witness statement of Beth King Smith [that is a solicitor
acting for the claimant], in support of the application notice,
together with a draft order in support of the application notice,
together with a notice of issue, together with a notice of hearing
order and the defendant's response pack were handed to Patricia
Marrow, the defendant's grandmother on Tuesday 10 February
2015 at 16.30 hours at Kingsdon Nursery Garden, North Town,
Kingsdon... as the defendant was not available. At the time of
service, Patricia Marrow advised me that she would hand it to
him immediately on his return later that evening."
I take it that the address, Kingsdon Nursery, is where the mother and grandmother live.
So, the documentation was handed into the hands of a member of the defendant's
family at 4.30pm on Tuesday. Today is Friday. I am satisfied that there was valid
service on Tuesday. I accept that evidence of service.
Mr Webster said that he first heard of this application yesterday. Even if that were the
case, and I am not to be taken as accepting that, nevertheless, I would, to the extent that
that is not sufficient time for service, abridge time to enable this hearing to be heard
here today.
26. Having regard to the background of the case and to Mr Webster's intimate knowledge
of it, as referred to by Judge Purle QC in his judgment, it is right, just, appropriate, fair
and necessary for the court to engage with this application at this stage. Indeed, the
court could have done so even on an ex parte basis at short notice.
27.
28.
The papers were within the defendant's family on Tuesday and today is Friday. The
defendant has had the time which the rules would normally allow to prepare for this
case. Even if he did not, I would abridge time, even on the basis he had them
yesterday. I say that because of the background to the case and the need urgently to
address the issues which have arisen.
I move on then to deal with those issues.
Serious Issues, Adequacy of damages and of the Undertaking in Damages
29.
30.
I have already identified the factual disputes. I am not today deciding the truth of
these allegations. However, I am satisfied that there are serious matters to be tried on
the issues of trespass, slander of title and upon the defendant's obstruction of the sale.
I turn then to deal with the second issue: would damages be an adequate remedy? In
my judgment, they would not.
31. The defendant has demonstrated that he can engage in litigation and not pay costs
orders made against him or his family. In any event, money would never be enough in
this situation, because the whole point is to get the property sold in order to implement
a court's decision. Damages simply would not be an adequate remedy here, because,
unless restrained, the defendant will carry on doing what he is doing to frustrate a sale.
29
Page 41 of 380
32.
33.
The third question then is: are the claimants good for their undertaking? Can I ask for
some confirmation on that? There is no reason to doubt - Mr Penley is a solicitor - that
the claimants are good for their undertaking in damages.
So I turn then to deal with the final consideration, the balance of convenience.
Balance of Convenience
34. In my judgment, the balance of convenience here falls most emphatically in favour of
the grant of the injunction. These parties have already been through the court process
once. There has been a detailed decision by Judge Purle QC, rejecting the claim for
estoppel and, if I may say so, making it plain in his judgment that this defendant's
mother was far from a happy witness in those proceedings.
35.
36.
37.
38.
The evidence clearly establishes that, on a prima facie basis, Mr Webster was not in
possession or occupation in September 2014. It may be a matter to be litigated, but
certainly is an arguable case that he was not there then, because the trustees were busy
negotiating with his mother.
The episodes of trespass do have a worrying element about them. I am satisfied the
status quo for the purpose of this application was one in which the defendant was not in
posession or occupation. These acts of alleged trespass have been committed since then
and since the vacation of the house by his mother. The status quo argument as well as
the balance of convenience favour the grant of the injunction. Moreover, the claimants
had engaged in the legal process in the London Proceedings and secured a court order
which they are seeking to implement.
Against all that, I have had to balance the other proceedings in Taunton to beheard on
10 March 2015 and the London proceedings. It seems to me that those proceedings are
all constructed substantially upon the premise that he has the rights which were denied
in the litigation before Judge Purle QC. To the extent that they did not get raised before
Judge Purle QC by Mr Webster, one wonders why not? These two sets of proceedings,
the valuation proceedings in London and the Taunton proceedings, seem to me to be
substantially if not exclusively an attempt to re-run the arguments which were rejected
by Judge Purle QC.
For all those reasons, therefore, it seems to me that the balance of convenience falls
firmly down on the side of the grant of the injunction.
Conclusion
39.
I make the injunction in terms of the draft which appears at pages 74, 75, 76 and 77,
save that the restriction in paragraph 1(c) shall be qualified by the fact that the
defendant shall be entitled, in hearings before the court and in court documentation
prepared solely for the court, to assert the arguments which he needs to argue in those
proceedings.
40. Moreover, in relation to 1(b), which currently as drafted prohibits him from entering or
causing to be entered any entry against the title, the provision 'save without prior
permission of the court' needs to be added, because, if Mr Webster has a legitimate
claim to register something against the title, then the court will want to consider that
30
Page 42 of 380
41.
42.
43.
before it is registered, rather than having a lengthy and expensive process afterwards
for its removal.
With those modifications, I make the injunction in terms of the draft order.
As far as the costs of today are concerned, the simplest thing for me to do is to reserve
those costs to the next hearing before me. This will probably be after the hearing in
Taunton on 10 March 2015. That will give Mr Webster the opportunity to seek legal
assistance and representation generally and on the question of costs in particular.
Indeed, at the next hearing before me, which will be no later than 23 March 2015, it
may well be argued that this injunction should never have been made and that it should
be set aside. So, although this was an inter-partes hearing and not an ex parte one, I
shall reserve to myself the costs of this application and the costs of today and I shall
consider them at the next hearing before me in March 2015.
Page 43 of 380
31
IN THE TAUNTON COUNTY COURT
Case No: A00TA241
The Shire Hall
Taunton
Somerset
BETWEEN:
Before:
DEPUTY DISTRICT JUDGE ORME
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
and
JOHN PENLEY & ANOR
Transcript from a recording by Ubiqus
61 Southwark Street, London SE1 OHL
Tel: 020 7269 0370
MR TREVIS appeared on behalf of the Claimant
MR O WOODING appeared on behalf of the Defendants
JUDGMENT
Approved
1
TA1 4EU
Tuesday, 10th March 2015
Page 44 of 380
DDJ ORME:
1.
2.
3.
4.
In this matter I am dealing with a claim for possession which is brought by Rupert St John
Webster against Mr John Francis Penley and Mrs Alison Virginia Ashcroft. Mr Webster
was represented before me by Mr Trevis of counsel and the defendants were represented by
Mr Wooding of counsel.
The claim is for possession of the living quarters of Commander Valentine St John Webster
at The Priory, Ash Priors, Taunton. A claim form was issued on 29 September 2014 and
had particulars of claim attached to it. A form of defence was filed and the matter then
became before District Judge Woodburn on 24 November 2014. He clearly did not think
that the particulars of claim showed any reasonable ground for bringing the claim and
although he did not expressly strike out the particulars of claim what he said in paragraph
one of the order was that:
'Unless by 4pm on 5 December 2014 the claimant shall file and serve an amended
claim form and/or particulars of claim the claim shall stand automatically struck out
as not disclosing a reasonable ground for bringing a claim.”
Following the making of that order the claimant filed amended particulars of claim which
are dated 5 December 2014 and the defendants have filed a long amended defence to that
claim dated 17 December 2014. The application before me today by the defendants is to
strike out the claim in total as showing no cause of action or being an abuse of the court
procedure.
The main reason for that is that there is a long history to this litigation and this is not the
only claim that is still going on. There is a claim for proprietary estoppel within which the
claimant is also the claimant and the defendants in this case were two of the defendants
along with three other parties; that claim came before His Honour Judge Purle QC in the
High Court of Justice Chancery Division in May 2013 and after a full trial of that claim
2
Page 45 of 380
