The Prio
Asli Pavis
Taintor
22.9.06.
Dear John.
wand Valentnesshare
estate 
to go to genrey
I wan
of my
Valerie (Hilda) Webster
Верескве
earle 334
06
Page 67 of 140
tter No.
ant Matter:
ATTENDANCE
NOTE
CLIENT NAME:
MATTER NO:
WEBSTER- Will
D060494
23 September 2006
DATE:
TIME:
FEE EARNER:
Telephone:
Client
Attendance:
JFP
Fee Earner
Meeting:
JFP telephoning Mrs Ashcroft at The Priory explaining that he wanted to speak to
Antonia, you said that Antonia was there. Discussing the correspondence. We said
we had received two letters from you. JFP was still firmly of the opinion that it was
not the right time for your mother to change her Will. There were too many
competing issues. JFP said that, in his view, The Priory would have to be sold on
your mother's death in which case what was being discussed was the proceeds of sale.
Virginia said that her mother maintained that The Priory could not be sold and JFP
said this was an indication that she was not really understanding the position any
longer. If The Priory was sold then was your mother saying that Valentine's children
should have a larger share than, say, Rory's children. You did not think she had
thought this through. JFP said that if your mother died before the matter could be
considered and Valentine's children wanted to make provision for Jenny then they
could do it by means of a Deed of Variation. The issue that seemed to be troubling
you, and you said your mother, was that your mother had given certain assurances to
Valentine and it was now being suggested that Valentine's wife/children should have
the benefit of these.
Speaking to Antonia. JFP said he would like to speak to her when it was suitable and
she had some privacy.
You asked if it was alright for Valentine to be buried in the grounds of The Priory.
JFP said that he thought that the District Council needed to be consulted and the site
of the grave would need to be recorded. You were not very happy about it and nor
was Virginia but this was Valentine's wish. Pointing out that the land was legally
owned by your mother, Virginia and JFP and JFP had certainly not been consulted.
You would phone JFP in due course.
Very lengthy attendance on Rory Webster. Explaining the various letters we had
P.T.O.
Page 68 of 140
p.m.
received and the problems of what JFP perceived to be pressures being brought on
Virginia and your mother. You were of the opinion that your mother was not able to
grasp everything now at this present time and she would be inclined to say things
simply in order to enquire. The situation about Valentine had been very distressing.
However, you were satisfied that your mother had originally been aware that
Valentine might not survive her which is why she had discussions with you and had
changed her Will earlier this year. You were adamant that your mother should not be
asked to consider her Will at the present time and you would certainly challenge any
Will that was made in the near future without proper consultation taking place. You
authorised JFP to say that to anyone if the subject was raised. You had had some
discussions with Jenny and with Rupert and you thought the way Rupert had behaved
was very distasteful. You acknowledged that both you and Valentine had received
considerable support from your parents during your life and you were aware that your
mother had also helped the Sloanes from time to time.
JFP said he would be quite happy to come down to a meeting to see your mother in
due course.
Page 69 of 140
Land Registry
Plymouth Office
Mr.St John-Webster
The Priory
Ash Priors
Taunton
TA4 3ND
Date: 12/04/07
Your Reference:
Our Reference:
Lisa Fry/
OMT/VFR
Dear Mr V St John-Webster,
I refer to our communication in November 2005 regarding the voluntary
registration of The Priory and Taunton Trees. I am writing as a matter of
courtesy to establish if you still wish to pursue the registration. If you do
then please contact me on the number below and we can discuss this
further.
Alternatively if I do not receive any contact from you within a month I will
assume you no longer wish to pursue at this time.
Yours faithfully
Office Marketing Team
Land Registry
Plymouth Office
Plumer House
Tailyour Road
Crownhill
Plymouth
DX No 8299
Plymouth (4)
PL6 5HY
Lisa Fry
Office Marketing Team
Direct Line-01752 636205
Fax Number - 01752 636161
Lisa.Fry@landregistry.gsi.gov.uk
LISA
March/April 2006. = Spoken to Valentine
+
www.landregistry.gov.uk
CUSTOMER SERVICE EXCELLENCE
INVESTOR IN PEOPLE
"
Title Deeds. Application
"Statutory Declaration" to draw"
- Registration v. Solicitor.
up
Solicitor to lodge it. Beneficial to me.". Taunton Trees.
the Deeds.
Page 70 of 140
