2010 EWHC 3981 (CH)
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
CHANCERY DIVISION
Case No: HC09C01570
BEFORE:
MASTER BRAGGE
BETWEEN:
ALISON ASHCROFT
- and -
Rolls Building
7 Rolls Buildings
Fetter Lane
London EC4A 1NL
Wednesday, 22 September 2010
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
MR GRANT appeared on behalf of the Claimant
MR FISHER CROUCH appeared on behalf of the Defendant
JUDGMENT
(Draft Not Approved)
Claimant
Defendant
Digital Transcript of WordWave International Ltd trading as DTI
8th Floor, 165 Fleet Street, London, EC4A 2DY
Tel No: 020 7404 1400 Fax No: 020 7404 1424
Web: www.DTIGLOBAL.com Email: TTP@dtiglobal.eu
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
No of Words: 947
WordWave International Ltd trading as DTI
No of Folios: 13
Page 1 of 380
1.
MASTER BRAGGE: This afternoon I am concerned with an application notice issued
on 6 September seeking an order that unless the claimant applies to join, either as
claimant or defendant, Jennifer, and the executors of the late Valerie Webster (that is in
fact Jennifer) and all persons purporting to have a legal beneficial interest in
The Priory, as well as an order in relation to inspection of documents, that the claim
stands struck out with judgment for the defendants.
2.
The question of parties arose because of what is pleaded in the Particulars of Claim.
For example, paragraph 11 of the Particulars of Claim provides that "Further or in the
alternative, all those persons including the defendants who purport to have a legal
beneficial interest in The Priory and the agricultural land, whether as trustees or
otherwise, are stopped by these assurances, promises and representations denying the
existing of the trust referred to."
3.
Then there was a request for further and better particulars and the answers to that
request made it clear that other persons needed at the very least to have notice of the
claim or be joined in the claim. The view therefore was taken, and indeed is set out
explicitly in the Defence, that the claim as presently constituted was defective, both in
relation to the absence of Valerie Webster, and I should say that Valentine is deceased
and neither his executors nor his mother has been made a party, that is the reason for
that. Accordingly, it is said that Jennifer should be the claimant, or, if she refuses to be
a claimant, then she should be a defendant. In fact, I am told by Mr Fisher Crouch and
accept that she was about to go to her solicitors in that connection.
WordWave International Ltd trading as DTI
Page 2 of 380
4.
As I have already briefly indicated, the claimant also in effect brings into the litigation
those who purport to have a legal or beneficial interest in The Priory. One then
immediately has to think of those individuals as identified, in particular in the
pleadings and in the reply to the further and better particulars. As I say, these matters
were set out in the Defence, which was served now some considerable time ago, in fact
in April.
5.
My attention has been drawn to a letter of 30 June 2010 from the defendant's solicitors
referring to fundamental flaws in the case. A further letter was written and an extract is
set out in Mr Grant's skeleton on 28 July. That letter asked for information as to what
was supposed to be done to regulate the pleadings in the matter and it is in terms a
warning that, if there is no response in substantive terms, then instructions would be
taken with a view to issuing an application notice to strike out. There is also a request
for the certain documents that were listed in the claimant's solicitor's documents. Later
the application indeed was issued and that is the one that is before me.
6.
By a letter of 17 September the claimant's solicitors write a detailed letter to the
defendant's solicitors suggesting a way forward. The matter is, however, before me. In
light of the order I have indicated that I am going to make, there is in fact now no
question of an unless order. Mr Grant submits that the substance of the order I have
made reflects what his clients have been trying to achieve, namely the proper
constitution of the claim.
7.
On the other hand, Mr Fisher Crouch says that an unless order was never appropriate
and this sort of matter should have been dealt with at a routine case management
WordWave International Ltd trading as DTI
Page 3 of 380
conference. In any event, the order that I have indicated is different, at least in part,
from the order sought in the application notice.
8.
I have a certain amount of sympathy for Mr Fisher Crouch because it is quite clear
from what he tells me and from his letter of 17 September that he has been trying to get
a decision from Jennifer as to what her position is. However, the fact remains, as it
seems to me, that it is the obligation of the claimant to see that the claim is properly
constituted and, if in so far as it is defective of parties or defective of people who need
to be given notice and therefore bound by the claim, then that is the obligation of a
claimant.
9.
It was not, for example, suggested that there should be a case management conference
to deal with the matter. The substance was that there was more or less silence from the
claimant as to its position. Although the order is in formulation different in part from
what is sought in the application notice, the substance of what I have ordered reflects,
as I say, the onus on the defendant behind this application, so I am afraid I cannot
merely treat this as a case management conference and I think that Jennifer will have to
pay the costs of the application.
WordWave International Ltd trading as DTI
Page 4 of 380
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
Claim No. HC09CO1570
CHANCERY DIVISION
BETWEEN:
RUPERT JOLYON RICHARD ST. JOHN WEBSTER
and
(1) ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT
(2) JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY
(3) JENNIFER ST. JOHN WEBSTER
(4) IAN RORY ST. JOHN WEBSTER
and
(5) ANTONIA MARY SLOANE
Claimant
Defendants
Before Mr. N. Strauss Q.C., sitting as a deputy judge
20th December 2011
Mr. David E. Grant, instructed by Messrs. Clarke Willmott LLP, appeared for the 1st and
2nd defendants. Miss Barbara Rich, instructed by Messrs. Beviss and Beckinsale
appeared for the claimant.
Approved judgment
1.
This action arises from a family dispute relating to the estate of Valerie Webster
("Valerie"). There are two claims in the action. The first is a contentious probate claim,
seeking an order in solemn form granting probate of Valerie's penultimate will dated 16th
November 2000, and claiming against the validity of her last will dated 24th May 2006.
-1-
X:\NS\NS6 Page 5 of 380
The second is a claim that land comprising The Priory and certain agricultural land at Ash
Priors, near Taunton, Somerset is subject to a constructive trust or equity based on
proprietary estoppel arising from a testamentary promise.
2. This is an application by the 1st and 2nd defendants for summary judgment
dismissing the constructive trust, or proprietary estoppel, claim. The trial of the action is
due to begin on 16th January next, although, since witness statements are not due to be
served until 6 weeks after my decision on this application, it seems doubtful whether the
date can be retained.
3.
The Ash Priors estate, consisting of The Priory, comprising a mansion house, 3
cottages and 17.628 acres of land, and the Agricultural Land, which has 20.236 acres, and
certain other parcels of land which are not relevant to the present application, was
purchased by Valerie's late husband, Antony Webster ("Antony") in 1950. He died on
the 10th February 1996. Valerie died on 21st August 2007.
4.
Antony and Valerie's first child was Valentine Webster ("Valentine"). He married
Jennifer in 1970, and they had 3 children, of whom the oldest is the claimant in the action,
Rupert, who was born in 1972. Valentine was made bankrupt in December 1992,
obtaining his discharge in the following year, 1993. He died in 2006. Jennifer is still
alive. She is the 3rd defendant.
5.
Antony and Valerie had 3 further children, Virginia (or Alison), Antonia and Rory
who are, respectively, the 2nd, 5th and 4th defendants. They have, between them, 9
children.
-2-
X:\N\NS63 6 of 380
6.
Until 1992, Antony retained the legal title to the estate, but by a Deed of
Voluntary Correspondence dated 6th April 1992 he conveyed the Priory and two fields to
himself and to Valerie to be held by them as tenants in common in equal shares. Then, by
a Deed of Gift dated 25th April 1992, Antony gave the remainder of the estate, including
the Agricultural Land, to Valerie.
7.
By a Settlement dated 25th April 1992, Valerie transferred her interest in part of
the estate, including the Agricultural Land, to Alison, Antonia and Rory to be held on
trust for her 4 children.
8.
Rupert's claim is pleaded (not by counsel appearing on the application) in the
following terms in the Particulars of Claim:-
"THE TRUST CLAIM IN RESPECT OF THE PRIORY
8.
9.
10.
From the early 1970s onwards, Anthony made assurances, promises and
representations to Valentine and Jennifer that if they (Valentine and Jennifer) came
to live at Ash priors, helped to look after Anthony and Valerie, and helped to look
after and run the farm at Ash Priors, he (Anthony) would by his Will bequeath to
Valentine all his legal and beneficial interest in the Priory and in the Agricultural
Land.
Relying upon the said assurances, promises and representations, Valentine and
Jennifer went to live at Ash Priors, helped to look after Anthony and Valerie, and
helped to look after and run the farm at Ash Priors. They did so without
remuneration, and also spent considerable sums of money on the Priory and on the
Agricultural Land, and on other properties at Ash Priors originally owned by
Antony. In so doing, they acted to their detriment, in reliance upon the said
assurances, promises and representations.
By virtue of the matters set out in Paragraphs 8 and 9 above, the Priory and the
Agricultural Land were, immediately prior to the making of the 1992 Deed, and
still are subject to a trust in favour of Valentine, and since his death on 16th
September 2006, in favour of the residuary beneficiary of his Estate."
-3-
X:\N\NS63 Page 7 of 380
9.
The following Further Information relates to the constitution of this claim:-
(1)
the claimant brings these proceedings in his capacity as
(a)
(b)
(2)
a beneficiary of Valerie's Estate, and
the beneficiary of a Trust created by Valentine in respect of Valentine's interest in
The Priory and the Agricultural Land
the (1st and 2nd) defendants are being sued in their capacity as
(a)
the current Trustees of the 1992 Deed, and
(b)
the Executors named in the Disputed 2006 Will.
10.
Further, (the 2nd defendant) is sued in her capacity as one of the Trustees of the
1992 Settlement.
11. The Further Information also states:
"Jennifer is the sole Executrix of Valentine's Estate.
Although she is in his Will named as the sole beneficiary of Valentine, she holds
Valentine's legal and beneficial interest in The Priory and the Agricultural Land on Trust
for the Claimant."
12. The Further Information also contains more detail as to the alleged detriment to
Valentine and Jennifer in reliance on the alleged assurances, including both substantial
physical work and financial expenditure.
-4-
X:\N\NS63 8 of 380
13. It is clear from the evidence that Jennifer has never wished to participate in these
proceedings, but on 22nd September 2010, on the application of the 1st and 2nd defendants,
Master Bragge ordered that she should be added as the 3rd defendant, by consent if she
filed a written consent by 20 th October 2010, otherwise not by consent. She did not
consent.
14.
The first ground on which the application for summary judgment is based is that
Rupert has no locus standi to bring the claim. The constructive trust, or proprietary
estoppel, operates in favour of his parents, and the proper claimant is therefore his
mother, both in her personal capacity and as the executrix of her late husband's estate.
15. In response to this, and amplifying the rather vague references to a trust in the
Further Information, Rupert states as follows in his witness statement:
"As is clear from my Response 12, (in the Further Injunction) it is my case that "she
holds Valentine's legal and beneficial interest in the Priory and in the Agricultural Land
on Trust" for myself. For the avoidance of doubt, I submit that I am entitled to rely, in
relation to such interest, upon the terms of a Full Secret Trust agreed between my father
Valentine and my mother Jennifer in my presence in the late stage of the terminal
illness from which he eventually died. I shall seek at Trial to establish the existence of
that Trust by my evidence and that of my mother Jennifer. The creation of that Trust
was clearly in my father Valentine's mind at the time of the onset of that illness, as is
shown by his diary note for 31st March 2011. ..."
-
16.
On behalf of the 1st and 2nd defendants, Mr. Grant submits that there is no obvious
reason for a secret trust, and that the suggestion that there was one is not supported by any
evidence on the part of Jennifer. These may well be substantial points, but they do not
provide a sufficient basis for a summary judgment application, in circumstances in which
these is unequivocal evidence from Rupert of a conversation with his parents, and in
-5-
X:\NS\NS6 Page 9 of 380
which his mother's evidence on the point is simply unknown. Rupert has explained his
mother's understandable reluctance to become involved in some detail in his witness
statement, but has said that he will if necessary compel her to give evidence.
17. Next it is submitted that, even if there was an oral declaration of trust, as Rupert
alleges, (a) it is ineffective for want of writing, by reason of section 53 of the Law of
Property Act 1925 and (b) even if that were not so, only the trustee i.e. Rupert's mother,
could enforce it: see Roberts v. Gill & Co. [2011] 1 A.C. 240 at §87 per Lord Rodger.
Both these points seem to be correct, and Miss Rich on behalf of Rupert, while
contending that they were irrelevant, did not seek to answer them.
18.
Instead, she made an application, in separate proceedings in Valentine's estate
brought by Jennifer against Rupert, for the appointment of Rupert as Valentine's personal
representative in substitution for Jennifer, pursuant to section 50 of the Administration of
Justice Act 1985. Rupert of course consents to the application, the effect of which would
be to give him locus standi to pursue his late father's claim.
19.
Mr. Grant objected to this application, on the ground of its lateness, which
deprived him of the opportunity of obtaining evidence that Rupert was not a fit and
proper person. However, I think that Miss Rich was right to say that that is a matter
between Jennifer, the sole beneficiary, and Rupert, and that in relation to this it was Mr.
Grant's clients who did not have locus standi.
20. Mr. Grant further submitted that the substitution of Rupert as the personal
representative of Valentine's estate did not assist his claim, since to pursue it on behalf of
-6-
X:\NS\NSPage 10 of 380
the estate was inconsistent with his primary case of a secret trust in his favour. I do not
accept this. In circumstances in which Mr. Grant has submitted, probably correctly, that
any such secret trust would be unenforceable, there is no inconsistency in Rupert
advancing an alternative case. He is perfectly entitled, in these circumstances, to claim
that, if the secret trust is unenforceable, the beneficiary of the claim remains the estate of
his father, which he is now entitled to represent.
21.
So this ground on which the application for summary judgment is based fails. I
am prepared to make the order sought in the separate proceedings, which results in the
position that Rupert is entitled to pursue the action in his capacity as the personal
representative of his father's estate.
22.
Miss Rich also applied, on behalf of Jennifer, for an order that she should cease to
be a party to the proceedings, on the ground that it was not desirable for her to remain a
party following the appointment of Rupert as personal representative. I reject that
application. The basis for Master Bragge's Order appears clearly from the defendants'
skeleton argument for that hearing. It was that the claim was improperly constituted,
having regard to CPR 19.3, because all persons jointly entitled to the remedy claimed in
the action ought to be party to it. That remains the position: if the claim is valid, it is, or
at least may be, a joint claim belonging to Jennifer and the estate of her late husband.
23.
Miss Rich said that Jennifer was concerned at the possibility of an order for costs,
in circumstances in which the other parties to the action have declined to say that they
would not apply for costs against her. There does not seem to me to be much risk of an
-7-
X:\N\NS Page 11 of 380
order for costs being made against her, in circumstances in which she has not taken any
steps to advance any claim which she may have.
24.
The next ground on which the application for summary judgment is based is that
Valentine's claim is vested in his trustee in bankruptcy, the Official Receiver. This seems
to me to be unanswerable.
25.
The property vesting in a trustee in bankruptcy is widely defined in section 436 of
the Insolvency Act 1986:
66 66
property" includes money, goods, things in acting, and every description of property
wherever situated and also obligations and every description of interest, whether present
or future or vested or contingent, arising out of or incidental to, property"(my
emphasis).
26.
As at December 1992, on the basis of the facts alleged, either Valentine and
Jennifer jointly, or Valentine alone, had an equity interest in The Priory and the
Agricultural Land, which would take effect on the death of his father. The precise extent
of the equity might depend on the circumstances at that time, as the court will assess the
minimum that is necessary to give effect to the promise and avoid unconscionability: see
Jennings v. Rice [2003] 1 P. & CR. 100 (C.A.); Gillett v. Holt [2001] Ch. 210. Subject to
that, Valentine and Jennifer became jointly entitled, or Valentine became entitled alone,
to The Priory and the Agricultural Land on the death of his father. Alternatively, it is
suggested, the assurances were to be understood as taking effect on the death of both
parents, although this would require an amendment to the pleadings. However, the
assurances are to be interpreted, assuming that they, and the necessary reliance and
-8-
X:\N\NS Page 12 of 380
detriment, are established on the evidence, Valentine had by December 1992 a either a
joint or a sole interest in the estate. Its existence did not depend on any future uncertain
event.
27.
Miss Rich submitted that Valentine had not acquired any property by December
1992. In cases of this kind, no property interest arose until the death of the promisor,
unless the promisor did something inconsistent with the promise in his lifetime to the
knowledge of the promisee: if he did, the promisee had an immediate claim, as in Gillett
v. Holt.
28.
This seems to me to confuse the right with the circumstances in which the right is
enforced. Normally, the promisee would not bring proceedings unless and until the
promisee's personal representatives refused to give effect to the equity. In Gillett v. Holt,
the promisor made inconsistent dispositions in his own lifetime, and earlier proceedings
were justified. But the property here is not the cause of action but the equity, described
by Slade L.J. in Jones v. Watkins, unreported, 26th November 1987 as “a right in equity to
a transfer of the whole property.” On the facts pleaded in this case, Valentine and
Jennifer, alternatively Valentine alone, had acquired such a right long before December
1992. Although there is no authority directly in point, in my view Valentine's right was
property which passed to the Official Receiver as his trustee in bankruptcy.
29. The Official Receiver has never transferred the equity back to Valentine, from
which it follows that, at this point in time, it is vested in him, and Rupert has no locus
standi to pursue Valentine's claim. Since his mother does not wish to pursue her claim,
as matters stand the action must fail. However, I understand that the Official Receiver
-9-
X:\NSINS Page 13 of 380
has been approached, and it may be that he will be prepared to reassign the claim to
Valentine's estate. If that happens before judgment is handed down, this ground on
which the application is based will disappear. Similarly, if a reassignment takes place at
any time in the future, any further action brought by Rupert, and similarly constituted,
would not be affected by this decision. All that I have decided is that the cause of action
is at present vested in the Official Receiver as Valentine's trustee in bankruptcy.
30.
The final ground on which this application is based is that the claim has no real
prospect of success on the facts. Mr. Grant submitted that both the transfer by Antony to
himself and Valerie as tenants in common on 7th April 1992, and the Deed of Settlement
relating to the Agricultural Land on 27th April 1992, were flatly inconsistent with the
alleged assurances. Yet Valentine and Jennifer did nothing, although they must have
known of the arrangements and, indeed, a later entry in Valentine's diary for 3rd April
2000 proves this. Therefore, Mr. Grant submitted, the claim is not credible, since
Valentine would have objected at the time, and in any event the defence of laches would
be unanswerable since nothing was done for the remaining 14 years of his life.
31.
These are clearly very powerful points, but I am not persuaded to accept them as a
basis for summary judgment. There is some evidence that Valentine did not think it
appropriate to do anything while his mother was still alive, and it is possible that the
assurances were intended to take effect only on her death. Rupert relies on the witness
statement signed by his mother which supports the claim, although his evidence is that
she did not wish this to be used, but beyond this it is not clear what she will say. It is not
impossible that there may be a valid explanation for the inaction since 1992 and, in
-10-
X:\NS\NS Page 14 of 380
circumstances in which Rupert has said that she will be called to give evidence, it is
impossible to say that the claim is fanciful or unreal.
32.
Nevertheless, as matters stand at present, I propose to give summary judgment
dismissing the proprietary estoppel claim, but on the sole basis that Rupert has no locus
standi to bring it at present.
-11-
X:\NS\NS Page 15 of 380
