HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
HHJ Paul Matthews:
Introduction
1.
2.
This is my judgment on an application by notice dated 2 August 2021 on behalf of the
defendants, for an order striking out the claimant's claim or giving summary
judgment against the claimant. The application is made in the context of a claim for
professional negligence made by claim form issued in February 2021 by the claimant
against the defendants as solicitors to his grandparents, both now long deceased.
The hearing of the application, on 2 December 2021, followed an application by an
undated notice, sealed on 25 November 2021, on behalf of the claimant, for an order
to vacate the hearing on the basis that the claimant's preferred counsel was not
available to appear at it. I dealt with that application on paper, and on 29 November
handed down a written judgment under neutral citation [2021] EWHC 3198 (Ch),
refusing to adjourn the hearing. The claimant made an application to the Court of
Appeal for permission to appeal against my decision, but on 1 December 2021 Asplin
LJ refused permission to appeal and also refused to adjourn the hearing. It therefore
proceeded with the claimant representing himself. He produced a 10 page skeleton
argument which was sent to the court late on the evening before the hearing, and
which I read the next morning before sitting.
Background
Earlier background
3.
4.
Although the present claim was issued only this year, the claimant has been engaged
in related litigation for more than ten years now, and it is necessary to set out some of
the history in order to put the present application in context. I can take some of the
background from my own decision in a case called Ashcroft and Penley v Webster
[2017] EWHC 887 (Ch). This was a case in which the present claimant was the
defendant, and the present first defendant was the second claimant. In that case I
decided to extend the life of an extended civil restraint order made against the present
claimant on 23 March 2015 by HHJ McCahill QC for another two years.
The relevant background from my earlier decision is as follows:
“2. Captain Antony Webster and his wife Valerie had four children. There were
two sons and two daughters. Valentine was the elder son and Rory was the
younger. Virginia (later Ashcroft, the First Claimant) and Antonia (later Sloane)
were the two daughters. Valentine married Jennifer, and they had three children,
Rupert (the Defendant [now the present claimant]), Letitia and Arabella. Rupert
married Jane, and they have three children, Beatrice, Roselle and Luke.
3. In 1950 Captain Webster acquired the property in the village of Ash Priors,
Taunton, known as Priory Farm, consisting of some 44 acres including eight
cottages. In 1965 two of these cottages were sold to Valerie. She later sold a half
share to Rory. In 1987 Captain Webster transferred another three cottages to
Valerie. In 1990 part of the estate known as Priory Barn was sold to a company
belonging to Valentine.
2
Page 306 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
4. Meanwhile, in 1971 Valerie purchased a nearby property known as Monks
Walk. She sold most of it to Valentine in 1972, and gave him the rest in 1990.
Valentine attempted to develop the Barn, using Monks Walk as security, but ran
into financial difficulties. In 1992 the mortgagee took possession of Monks Walk,
and sold it.
5. In April 1992 Captain Webster transferred the farmhouse and two fields out of
the Priory Farm estate to himself and Valerie as tenants in common. Three weeks
later, Captain Webster transferred the remaining agricultural land and certain
cottages to Valerie. Two days later, Valerie created a discretionary trust of that
land and cottages, of which her four children were discretionary objects.¹ This
was all part of a tax planning exercise, carried out on the advice of Bevirs
solicitors, assisted by the Second Claimant, Mr Penley [now the first defendant],
the family solicitor (not from Bevirs).
6. In December 1992, Valentine became bankrupt. Other members of the family
became bankrupt later. In October 1995 Priory Barn was repossessed and sold by
the mortgagee. Valentine and Jennifer moved into the farmhouse, The Priory. In
February 1996, Captain Webster died, and probate of his will was granted to
Virginia and Mr Penley, the Claimants, in May 1996. His will operated on his
50% interest in the farmhouse and two fields, and created a nil rate discretionary
trust for the benefit of Valerie and his issue, with a small legacy to Virginia and
the residue going to Valerie. She died in August 2007, and the Claimants became
personal representatives of her estate also. Valentine had unfortunately died the
year before, in September 2006, aged only 64, and his son Rupert, the Defendant,
became personal representative of his estate.
7. After the death of his father, Valentine, in 2006, and of his grandmother in
2007, Rupert, as personal representative of his father's estate, sought to make a
claim in proprietary estoppel against his grandparents' estates. The claim was
issued in 2009. It was based on various alleged representations or promises made
over the years, but apparently starting in the 1970s, by both Captain Webster and
his wife Valerie, to the effect that The Priory would come to Valentine.
8. This claim was issued primarily against Virginia and Mr Penley (the Claimants
in these proceedings), although Jennifer, Rory and Antonia were also joined as
defendants. Ultimately it was taken to trial, when Rupert (as claimant) and
Virginia and Mr Penley (as defendants) were represented by counsel, and the
other defendants appeared in person.
9. The claim was dismissed by HHJ Purle QC in a written judgment handed down
22 May 2013. He said, in summary:
“23. ……. In my judgment, no representation or promise to the effect
suggested by Rupert was ever made. Nor, if I am wrong about that, was
there detrimental reliance."
10. The judge also said this:
¹ This statement is unfortunately incorrect. I now understand that the trusts were not discretionary, but equal
protective life interests with remainders over, but nothing turns on this here.
3
Page 307 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
"28. What did emerge very clearly from the evidence, however, was the
fact that Valentine held the strong conviction that as the eldest son he was
entitled at least morally to control and (ultimately) inherit The Priory as his
birthright. That conviction was not, however, shared by other family
members, and Valentine knew this. During the course of the tax planning
exercise undertaken in 1992, Valentine's conviction was expressly rejected
by Valerie at a family meeting in the presence of solicitors (fully minuted)
on 25 February 1992. Notably, Valentine did not rely upon any
representation or promise at this stage, only a conviction of his prior
entitlement as the first born son.
29. That said, there is little doubt that the hope was expressed from time to
time, in different ways, especially by Valerie, that Valentine might inherit
or live at Ash Priors, or the farmhouse. But there was nothing amounting to
a commitment to ensure that any part of Ash Priors, or the farmhouse, or
the two fields, would become his. Moreover, after the 1992 tax planning
exercise, Mr Penley was very much against the taking any step that might
imperil the tax efficiency of the structure he had helped to put in place, and
his advice was heeded."
11. The Defendant having lost at first instance, and having been refused
permission to appeal by the judge, he applied on paper for permission to appeal to
the Court of Appeal. On 31 October 2013, Lord Justice Lewison refused
permission to appeal. The Defendant sought to renew his application at an oral
hearing before Lord Justice Floyd on 13 February 2014. Lord Justice Floyd also
refused permission to appeal.
12. The Defendant sought to protect his position in the pending litigation by
means of entries dated 6 March 2012 in the register of pending land actions, to
which he later added two further entries dated 3 September 2013, and then two
entries dated 24 February 2014 in the register of land charges to protect claimed
substantive rights, all registered against the property in the Land Charges
Registry, it being unregistered land. In May 2014, after the original claim had
been dismissed and all appeals exhausted, the Claimants applied by notice to
vacate those land charges. Sitting then in the Chancery Division of the High
Court as a deputy master, I acceded to that application in August 2014, and
vacated all six charges.
13. The Defendant then brought a new claim (A00TA241) against the Claimants
in September 2014 in the County Court at Taunton, seeking possession of a part
of the property at Ash Priors, on the basis that he had a right, whether through his
mother Jennifer, pursuant to the estate of his father Valentine, as a member of a
class of objects under a discretionary trust, or under a statutory tenancy or
licence, to occupy that part of the property. Parts of the claim were then struck
out as totally without merit by Deputy District Judge Orme, sitting at Taunton.
The remainder of the matter was transferred to Bristol, where on 23 March 2015
HHJ McCahill QC struck out the remainder, also as totally without merit.
15. The Claimants then brought a claim (B30BS071) against the Defendant in
early 2015 in trespass and slander of title. On 23 March 2015 HHJ McCahill QC
granted a final injunction against the Defendant, requiring him not to enter the
4
Page 308 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
5.
property, not to interfere with or prevent the marketing or sale of it, not to make
any entry on the title of the property without the permission of the court, and not
to publish or use words to the effect that he had an interest in The Priory or that
his permission was required before its disposal or that the registered owners were
not freehold owners of the property and/or that the trustees did not have the
power to give instructions as to the disposition of the property.
16. The Defendant in the meantime brought a new claim (B30BS107) against the
Claimants in the Bristol District Registry. This was treated as effectively an
application being made by the Defendant to vary the injunction granted in claim
number B30BS071. It was struck out by HHJ McCahill QC on 23 March 2015."
Before I go on,
for the sake of clarity I need to mention one procedural matter which
was not referred to in the chronology in my judgment above, but is referred to later on
in this judgment. This relates to the dispute about Valerie Webster's wills after she
died in 2007. The first defendant and Virginia Ashcroft sought to prove a will dated
2006. The current claimant, Mr Webster, wished to propound an earlier will dated
2000. He placed a caveat on the later will. The first defendant and Mrs Ashcroft
summonsed Mr Webster, in order to clear the way to proving the later will. The
matter was dealt with by DJ Million in the Principal Registry of the Family Division
of the High Court on 24 March 2009. He ordered that, if Mr Webster did not
commence probate proceedings to propound the 2000 will by 11 May 2009, his caveat
would cease to have effect. Accordingly, Mr Webster brought his probate claim
against the first defendant and Mrs Ashcroft, but also against his mother (Jennifer)
and his other aunt (Antonia) and uncle (Rory). It was this claim which included the
proprietary estoppel claim referred to at paragraph 7 of the quotation above. The
claim to propound the 2000 will also failed, and HHJ Purle QC ordered that the 2006
will be admitted to probate in solemn form.
Later background
6.
I can take the next part of the history from my judgment in the adjournment
application which I dismissed on 29 November 2021:
"4. It was in these circumstances that HHJ McCahill QC on his own initiative
made an extended civil restraint order ("ECRO”) against Mr Webster (then the
defendant, now the claimant), restraining him until 22 March 2017 from issuing
any claim or application against Mrs Ashcroft or Mr Penley (in their capacity as
executors of the estate of Valerie and trustees of the will of Captain Webster),
except for any personal claim that he might bring in professional negligence as a
disappointed beneficiary or otherwise. I mention now that, on 28 September
2015, Lord Justice Lewison on the papers refused permission for the Defendant to
appeal against the decision of HHJ McCahill QC of 23 March 2015, recording
that the appeal was totally without merit.
5. However, before the extended civil restraint order was made in March 2015,
Mr Webster had also issued three further claims against Mr Penley alone, under
claim numbers HC14B01306, HC14C01307, and HC14D01309. Each claim
sought to challenge the valuation of the estate of (respectively) Valentine, Valerie
and Captain Webster. On 11 June 2015 Mr Justice Birss struck out all three
claims, recording that each was totally without merit. The judge made a (second)
5
Page 309 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
extended civil restraint order against the Defendant. On 17 December 2015 Lord
Justice Floyd on the papers refused permission for the Defendant to appeal the
decision of Mr Justice Birss of 11 June 2015. On 17 November 2016 Lord Justice
Patten refused a renewed (oral) application for permission to appeal the decision
of Mr Justice Birss. He recorded in his judgment that an appeal would be totally
without merit.
6. On 21 April 2017, I extended the life of the ECRO of HHJ McCahill QC for
two years, to expire on 22 March 2019.
7. I referred above to the fact that in 2014, when I was a deputy master, I made an
order vacating certain entries in the land charges registry. On 5 August 2020, an
appellant's notice from Mr Webster was sealed by the Business & Property
Courts in London. This sought to appeal against my order of 4 August 2014. On 3
November 2020 Mr Justice Adam Johnson refused on paper to extend time for
filing the notice for the six years necessary. On 11 November Mr Webster sought
an oral hearing. This was listed for 10 February 2021 before Mr Justice Morgan,
when Mr Webster appeared before him personally. Mr Justice Morgan gave an
extempore judgment, dismissing the application for an extension of time,
certifying that the application was totally without merit, and making a further
ECRO (the third) against Mr Webster, for two years.
8. However, on 9 February 2021, the day before the third ECRO, Mr Webster had
issued the claim form in these proceedings to make the present ‘claim in
professional negligence' against the present defendants. Detailed particulars of
claim were attached to the claim form, which was issued in the High Court in
London. The particulars were not signed by counsel, and I infer that Mr Webster
prepared them himself.
9. The particulars alleged negligence by the defendants (inter alia) in (i) giving
estate planning advice to the claimant's father's parents in 1992, (ii) preparing
wills for each of them and two family trusts, (iii) estate administration after the
deaths of each such grandparent (in 1996 and 2007 respectively), (iv) giving
further advice in 2001, (v) procuring in 2006 the revocation of his grandmother's
will of 2000 by making a new one, (vi) failing to remain neutral with respect to
the claimant's own family, (vii) and breach of contract by the second defendant in
July 2014. As I have already said, the claimant's father died in 2006. The
claimant claims damages in excess of £5 million.
10. On 9 March 2021 Chief Master Marsh made an order transferring the claim to
the Business and Property Courts in Bristol. The defence of both defendants was
filed on 2 July 2021. By their defence the defendants plead that ‘Any claim in
negligence arising out of any act before 9 February 2006 is accordingly barred for
limitation pursuant to s. 14B Limitation Act 1980.' They say that ‘paragraphs 8 to
20 should be struck out accordingly'. In any event it is denied both that that the
defendants were negligent, and also that they owed any duty to the claimant.
Many of the factual allegations made are denied, it is denied that the claimant is
entitled to sue in respect of any losses caused to members of his family other than
himself, and other parts of the case are said to amount to an abuse of process as a
collateral attack on earlier judicial decisions."
6
Page 310 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
7.
I should record here that, following the service of the defence, the claimant did not
serve any reply in response to the defence by the time of filing the directions
questionnaire (see CPR rule 15.8). In particular, therefore, he did not plead any facts
relied on to resist the defendants' claim to the benefit of the provisions of the
Limitation Act 1980. I should also mention in passing that the claimant has filed an
appellant's notice to appeal against the decision of Mr Justice Morgan of 10 February
2021. So far as I am aware, the Court of Appeal has not yet decided whether or not to
give permission to appeal.
This application
8.
As I have already said, on 2 August 2021 the present defendants made an application
for an order striking out the claimant's claim or giving summary judgment against the
claimant. The application is supported by witness statements from the first defendant
himself, and from Catherine Green on behalf of the second defendant (though Ms
Green simply confirms what the first defendant says, and adds nothing further). The
claimant has not made any witness statement in opposition to the application. In
making their application, the defendants rely on both the principles of abuse of
process and the principles of limitation under the Limitation Act 1980. In relation to a
number of the paragraphs in the particulars of claim, it is also submitted that no
sufficient cause of action is pleaded, or that reverse summary judgment should be
given.
Relevant procedural rules
9.
10.
The relevant procedural rules governing the present application are contained in CPR
rules 3.4 and 24.1. The court's jurisdiction to strike out arises under CPR rule 3.4:
“(2) The court may strike out a statement of case if it appears to the court-
(a) that the statement of case discloses no reasonable grounds for bringing
or defending the claim;
(b) that the statement of case is an abuse of the court's process or is
otherwise likely to obstruct the just disposal of the proceedings; or
(c) that there has been a failure to comply with a rule, practice direction or
court order."
In addition, CPR Practice Direction 3A relevantly provides:
"1.4 The following are examples of cases where the court may conclude that
particulars of claim (whether contained in a claim form or filed separately) fall
within rule 3.4(2)(a):
(1) those which set out no facts indicating what the claim is about, for
example 'Money owed £5,000',
(2) those which are incoherent and make no sense,
(3) those which contain a coherent set of facts but those facts, even if true,
do not disclose any legally recognisable claim against the defendant.
7
Page 311 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
11.
1.5 A claim may fall within rule 3.4(2)(b) where it is vexatious, scurrilous or
obviously ill-founded."
The court's jurisdiction to give summary judgment (either against the defendant in
favour of the claimant, or vice versa) arises under CPR rule 24.2, which relevantly
provides:
"The court may give summary judgment against a claimant or defendant on the
whole of a claim or on a particular issue if—
(a) it considers that—
(i) that claimant has no real prospect of succeeding on the claim or
issue; or
(ii) that defendant has no real prospect of successfully defending the
claim or issue; and
(b) there is no other compelling reason why the case or issue should be
disposed of at a trial.”
In this connection, it is well established that, on an application for summary judgment,
the burden of proof rests on the applicant: ED&F Man Liquid Products Ltd v Patel
[2003] EWCA Civ 472, [9].
Principles on which the court acts
12.
So far as concerns the principles governing the jurisdiction of the court under these
rules, I can take the following summary from a recent decision of my own, Bank of
Scotland plc v Hoskins [2021] EWHC 3038 (Ch). This was also an application for an
order striking out a (counter)claim or awarding reverse summary judgment. In that
case I said this:
"14. This being an application to strike out or alternatively for summary
judgment, it is important to be clear what the court's role in such a case is. There
was little or no difference between the parties on this point. So far as concerns
striking out, I was referred to the recent decision of Roger ter Haar QC in
Benyatov v Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd [2020] EWHC 85 (QB). There
the judge said:
‘57. As a preliminary matter, the Court of Appeal explained in Partco Group
Ltd v Wragg [2002] EWCA Civ 594 at [28] that:
[...]
"If an application involves prolonged serious argument, the court
should, as a rule, decline to proceed to the argument unless it harbours
doubt about the soundness of the statement of case and is satisfied that
striking out will obviate the necessity for a trial or will substantially
reduce the burden of the trial itself".
No reasonable grounds for bringing the claim
8
Page 312 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
60. The following principles are relevant to this head of CPR 3.4(2):
(1) In Biguzzi v Rank Leisure Plc [1999] 1 WLR 1926 at 1932-1933 per
Lord Woolf MR, the Court of Appeal referred to strike out as a
"draconian" step: the striking out of a valid claim should only be taken
as a last resort.
(2) In a strike-out application the proportionality of the sanction is very
much in issue; see Walsham Chalet Park Ltd v Tallington Lakes Ltd
[2014] EWCA Civ 1607 at [44].
(3) If the Court is able to say that a case is "unwinnable" such that
continuance of the proceedings is without any possible benefit to the
respondent and would waste resources on both sides it may be struck
out: see Harris v Bolt Burdon [2000] CP Rep 70; [2000] CPLR 9 at
[27].
(4) An application to strike out the claim should not be granted where
there are significant disputes of fact between the parties going to the
existence and scope of an alleged duty of care unless the court is
"certain" (emphasis in original) that the claim is bound to fail: see
Hughes v Colin Richards & Co [2004] EWCA Civ 266; [2004] PNLR
35 at [22].
(5) Where "the legal viability of a cause of action is unclear (perhaps
because the law is in a state of transition), or is in any way sensitive to
the facts, an order to strike out should not be made": per Sir Thomas
Bingham in E (A Minor) v Dorset CC [1995] 2 AC 633 at 694B.
(6) It is not appropriate to strike out a claim in an area of developing
jurisprudence, since, in such areas, decisions as to novel points of law
should be based on actual findings of fact: see Farah v British Airways,
The Times, 26 January 2000, CA at [42] referring to Barrett v Enfield
BC [2001] AC 550 (see 557) and X (Minors) v Bedfordshire County
Council [1995] 2 AC 633 at page 741.
(7) A statement of case is not suitable for striking out if it raises a
serious live issue of fact which can only be properly determined by
hearing oral evidence: see Bridgeman v McAlpine-Brown 19 January
2000, unrep (CA) at [24].
Abuse of process or otherwise likely to obstruct just disposal
61. Paragraph 3.4.3 of the White Book 2019 says:
‘Although the term "abuse of the court's process" is not defined in the
rules or practice direction, it has been explained in another context as
"using that process for a purpose or in a way significantly different
from its ordinary and proper use" (Attorney General v Barker [2000] 1
FLR 759, DC, per Lord Bingham of Cornhill, Lord Chief Justice).'
9
Page 313 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
62. Examples of abuse of process arguments are given in paragraph 3.4.3 of
the White Book 2019, but none of them have any relevance to the present
case, for example where litigation is conducted in a manner designed to
undermine the object of a fair trial (such as relying on forged documents and
perjured evidence), or where matters are already res judicata, or the claim
involves a collateral attack on a previous decision or is of such limited value
to the Claimant that ‘the game is not worth the candle'. None of these have
any relevance to the present case."
15. So far as concerns summary judgment, I was referred to the well-known
decision of Lewison J (in Easyair Ltd (t/a Openair) v Opal Telecom Ltd [2009]
EWHC 339 (Ch)) as well as that of Mr ter Haar QC in Benyatov. Both of these
cases concerned applications by defendants for summary judgment against
claimants. This corresponds to the present case, where the claimant is applying
for summary judgment against the defendant in respect of his counterclaim. I was
also referred to dicta of Lord Collins of Mapesbury, giving the advice of the Privy
Council in Altimo Holdings and Investment Ltd v Kyrgyz Mobil Tel Ltd [2021] 1
WLR 1804. It will be sufficient to make some relevant citations from these cases.
16. In Easyair Ltd (t/a Openair) v Opal Telecom Ltd [2009] EWHC 339 (Ch),
Lewison J said:
"15. As Ms Anderson QC rightly reminded me, the court must be careful
before giving summary judgment on a claim. The correct approach on
applications by defendants is, in my judgment, as follows:
i) The court must consider whether the claimant has a ‘realistic' as opposed
to a 'fanciful' prospect of success: Swain v Hillman [2001] 1 All ER 91;
ii) A 'realistic' claim is one that carries some degree of conviction. This
means a claim that is more than merely arguable: ED & F Man Liquid
Products v Patel [2003] EWCA Civ 472 at [8]
iii) In reaching its conclusion the court must not conduct a ‘mini-trial': Swain
v Hillman
iv) This does not mean that the court must take at face value and without
analysis everything that a claimant says in his statements before the court. In
some cases it may be clear that there is no real substance in factual assertions
made, particularly if contradicted by contemporaneous documents: ED & F
Man Liquid Products v Patel at [10]
v) However, in reaching its conclusion the court must take into account not
only the evidence actually placed before it on the application for summary
judgment, but also the evidence that can reasonably be expected to be
available at trial: Royal Brompton Hospital NHS Trust v Hammond (No 5)
[2001] EWCA Civ 550;
vi) Although a case may turn out at trial not to be really complicated, it does
not follow that it should be decided without the fuller investigation into the
facts at trial than is possible or permissible on summary judgment. Thus the
10
Page 314 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
court should hesitate about making a final decision without a trial, even
where there is no obvious conflict of fact at the time of the application, where
reasonable grounds exist for believing that a fuller investigation into the facts
of the case would add to or alter the evidence available to a trial judge and so
affect the outcome of the case: Doncaster Pharmaceuticals Group Ltd v
Bolton Pharmaceutical Co 100 Ltd [2007] FSR 63;
vii) On the other hand it is not uncommon for an application under Part 24 to
give rise to a short point of law or construction and, if the court is satisfied
that it has before it all the evidence necessary for the proper determination of
the question and that the parties have had an adequate opportunity to address
it in argument, it should grasp the nettle and decide it. The reason is quite
simple: if the respondent's case is bad in law, he will in truth have no real
prospect of succeeding on his claim or successfully defending the claim
against him, as the case may be. Similarly, if the applicant's case is bad in
law, the sooner that is determined, the better. If it is possible to show by
evidence that although material in the form of documents or oral evidence
that would put the documents in another light is not currently before the
court, such material is likely to exist and can be expected to be available at
trial, it would be wrong to give summary judgment because there would be a
real, as opposed to a fanciful, prospect of success. However, it is not enough
simply to argue that the case should be allowed to go to trial because
something may turn up which would have a bearing on the question of
construction: ICI Chemicals & Polymers Ltd v TTE Training Ltd [2007]
EWCA Civ 725."
17. In Benyatov v Credit Suisse Securities (Europe) Ltd [2020] EWHC 85 (QB),
Mr ter Haar QC summarised much of this, and said:
"50. The Court of Appeal confirmed in AC Ward & Sons Ltd v Catlin (Five)
Ltd [2009] EWCA Civ 1098; [2010] Lloyd's Rep IR 301 at [24] that the
proper approach to be taken by the Court on summary judgment application
is conveniently summarised by Lewison J in Easyair Ltd v Opal Telecom Ltd
[2009] EWHC 339 (Ch) at [15]. Relevant considerations include the
following:
(1) The court must consider whether the claimant has a ‘realistic' as
opposed to a 'fanciful' prospect of success: Swain v Hillman [2001] 1
All ER 91;
(2) A 'realistic' claim is one that carries some degree of conviction.
This means a claim that is more than merely arguable: ED & F Man
Liquid Products v Patel [2003] EWCA Civ 472 at [8];
(3) In reaching its conclusion the Court must not conduct a ‘mini-
trial': Swain v Hillman;
(4) In reaching its conclusion the Court must take into account not only
the evidence actually placed before it on the application for summary
judgment, but also the evidence that can reasonably be expected to be
available at trial;
11
Page 315 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
(5) If it is possible to show by evidence that although material in the
form of documents or oral evidence that would put the documents in
another light is not currently before the Court, such material is likely to
exist and can be expected to be available at trial, it would be wrong to
give summary judgment because there would be a real, as opposed to a
fanciful, prospect of success.
51. Complex claims, cases relying on complex inferences of fact, and cases
with issues involving mixed questions of law and fact where the law is
complex are likely to be inappropriate for summary judgment: see Three
Rivers District Council v Bank of England (No. 3) [2003] 2 AC 1 (HL) at
[95] per Lord Hope. A trial ‘can often produce unexpected insights' and ‘a
judge will often find that his first impression of a case, when reading into it,
is not the same as his final conclusion': see Playboy Club London Ltd v
Banca Nazionale del Lavora SpA [2019] EWHC 303 (Comm) at [26].
52. Further, the general rule (which can be called the "Altimo" principle",
based on Altimo Holdings and Investment Ltd v Kyrgyz Mobil Tel Ltd [2011]
UKPC 7, [2012] 1 WLR 1804, see [84] and the authorities there cited) is that
it is not normally appropriate in a summary procedure such as an application
to strike out or for summary judgment to decide a controversial question of
law in a developing area, particularly because it is desirable that the facts
should be found so that any further development of the law should be on the
basis of actual and not hypothetical facts. Further, a summary procedure
ought not to be applied to an action involving serious investigation of ancient
law and questions of general importance. Where the law is not settled but is
in a state of development it is normally inappropriate to decide novel
questions on hypothetical facts.
53. Where disputed issues are such that their conclusion largely depends
upon the expert evidence relied on by each side, an application for summary
judgment will usually be inappropriate particularly where the exchange of
experts' reports has not yet occurred and joint statements of the experts have
not yet been produced: see Hewes v West Hertfordshire Hospitals NHS Trust
[2018] EWHC 2715 (QB) [45]-[50].
54. When deciding whether the respondent has some real prospect of success
the Court should not apply the standard which would be applicable at the
trial, namely the balance of probabilities on the evidence presented: see Royal
Brompton Hospital NHS Trust v Hammond (No.5), [2001] EWCA Civ 550
[18] and [82] per Aldous L.J. and [109] per Clarke L.J.. Indeed, ‘nothing like
a probability of success' is required: see Playboy Club London Ltd v Banca
Nazionale del Lavora SpA [2019] EWHC 303 (Comm) at [13].”
18. The reference in the judgment of Mr ter Haar QC to the “Altimo principle” is
to the following passage in Altimo Holdings and Investment Ltd v Kyrgyz Mobil
Tel Ltd [2012] 1 WLR 1804, where Lord Collins said:
"84. The general rule is that it is not normally appropriate in a summary
procedure (such as an application to strike out or for summary judgment) to
decide a controversial question of law in a developing area, particularly
12
Page 316 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
13.
because it is desirable that the facts should be found so that any further
development of the law should be on the basis of actual and not hypothetical
facts: e.g. Lonrho Plc v. Fayed [1992] 1 A.C. 448, 469 (approving Dyson v
Att-Gen [1911] 1 KB 410, 414: summary procedure ‘ought not to be applied
to an action involving serious investigation of ancient law and questions of
general importance ...'); X (Minors) v Bedfordshire County Council [1995] 2
AC 633 at 741 (‘Where the law is not settled but is in a state of development
it is normally inappropriate to decide novel questions on hypothetical
facts'); Barrett v Enfield London BC [2001] 2 AC 550, 557 (strike out cases);
Home and Overseas Insurance Co. Ltd. v Mentor Insurance Co. (U.K.) Ltd.
[1990] 1 WLR 153 (summary judgment). In the context of interlocutory
injunctions, in the famous case of American Cyanamid Co v Ethicon Ltd
[1975] AC 396, 407 it was held that the court must be satisfied that the claim
is not frivolous or vexatious, in other words, that there is a serious question to
be tried. It was no part of the court's function 'to decide difficult questions of
law which call for detailed argument and mature consideration'."
19. So far as concerns the relationship between striking out and summary
judgment, it is clear that an application under rule 3.4 is not one for summary
judgment: see eg Dellal v Dellal [2015] EWHC 907 (Fam). It is generally
concerned with matters of law or practice, rather than with the strength or
weakness of the evidence. So on an application to strike out, the court usually
approaches the question on the assumption (but it is only an assumption, for the
sake of the argument) that the respondent will be able at the trial in due course to
prove its factual allegations. On the other hand, on an application for summary
judgment, the court is concerned to assess the strength of the case put forward:
does the respondent's case get over the low threshold of “real prospect of
success"? If it does not, then, unless there is some other compelling reason for a
trial, the court will give summary judgment for the applicant. But, as stated, the
court must not indulge in a mini-trial, and must make allowances for the fact that
disclosure and cross-examination have not been available, as they would if the
matter went to trial.
20. Nevertheless, there is an overlap between the two types of application. As Mr
ter Haar QC explained in Benyatov,
"63. A statement of case which discloses no reasonable grounds may also be
an abuse of the court's process, and may also justify summary judgment. As
seen from the above discussion of the relevant legal principles, there is no
exact dividing line between strike out and summary judgment, and some
similar considerations apply to both, although there are different
considerations relevant to each."
On this last point, I also note that, at paragraph 3.4.21 of the White Book, the learned
editors say this:
"(1) Unlike Pt 24, r.3.4 also applies to cases of non-compliance with a rule,
practice direction or court order;
(2) Unlike r.3.4, Pt 24 also applies to the summary disposal of issues including
preliminary issues;
13
Page 317 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
14.
15.
(3) There are various procedural requirements in Pt 24 which do not apply
to r.3.4;
(4) Unlike Pt 24, r.3.4 applies to all proceedings. Thus, an order akin to summary
judgment may be obtained under r.3.4 in proceedings which are excluded from Pt
24..."
I respectfully agree.
One other point that I should mention at this stage is this. In certain circumstances at
least, the court should give the maker of a defective pleading an opportunity to put it
right before striking it out. In Kim v Park [2011] EWHC 1781 (QB), the master struck
out a claim for libel in online newspaper articles because the claimant had not
identified any person who had accessed the websites on which the words complained
of had been published, and hence there was no evidence of publication, although
during the hearing the claimant had told the master that the articles in question had
been seen during the relevant period by an individual or individuals who had
confirmed that they could be witnesses but that they were afraid of the defendant. The
claimant subsequently sent to the master details of evidence of publication.
On appeal against the master's decision, Tugendhat J said:
"40. However, where the court holds that there is a defect in a pleading, it is
normal for the court to refrain from striking out that pleading unless the court has
given the party concerned an opportunity of putting right the defect, provided that
there is reason to believe that he will be in a position to put the defect right. In
para 19 of his Judgment the Master recorded that the Claimant had informed him
that he already had witnesses. On 17 January 2011 the Claimant demonstrated
that that was not wishful thinking, or a bluff, by submitting the statements that he
did submit.
41. In those circumstances I conclude that it was wrong in principle for the
Master to strike out the claim without giving the Claimant an opportunity of
rectifying the defect in his case. Accordingly this appeal will be allowed."
The particulars of claim
16.
Before I can deal with the application itself, I need to set out the battleground. The
structure of the particulars of claim is as follows. It contains 35 paragraphs in total, of
which the first 6 are scene-setting. Paragraphs 7 and 8 deal with advice on estate
planning given by a firm called Bevirs at a family meeting on 25 February 1992. It is
alleged that Bevirs' advice was wrong but that the defendants “administered it
anyway causing loss and damage to” the estate of Captain Antony Webster (the
claimant's grandfather). Paragraph 8.3 alleges that the defendants would not claim
agricultural property relief from inheritance tax on Captain Webster's estate and
neither would they apply what is said to be the "protection" of the Trusts of Land and
Appointment of Trustees Act 1996 for the benefit of the claimant's family. The
failures were said in paragraph 8.4 to amount to fraud under sections 3 and 4 of the
Fraud Act 2006.
14
Page 318 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
17.
18.
19.
20.
20
21.
22.
23.
24.
Paragraphs 9 to 12 deal with the preparation of the wills of Captain Webster and his
wife Valerie, a family trust, and an alleged "deal among beneficiaries on the future of
his farm”. It is said that Captain and Mrs Webster expressed mutual intentions
including to confer successive life interests upon the claimant's father Valentine and
the claimant himself, and to allow them to buy his house, known as The Priory. It is
then further said that “the wills and trust produced by [the defendants] neglected
[those] mutual intentions". It is finally said that the defendants having acted
unreasonably could not invoke section 61 of the Trustee Act 1925.
Paragraph 13 pleads Captain Webster's death on 10 February 1996.
Paragraph 14 alleges that the defendants failed to ensure any deal among Captain
Webster's issue, and falsely represented in July 1996 that life interests could not be
created. Paragraph 15 alleges that in the same month the first defendant's father gave
negligent advice to Mrs Valerie Webster in a letter. Paragraph 16 says that that advice
misled Mrs Webster into revoking her 1992 will by making a new one in September
1998 (itself "revised” by a further will of November 2000), so that the “mutual aims”
of Captain and Mrs Webster were not carried out. The particulars given under this
paragraph include alleged encouragement of the claimant and his father “to expect to
own 'The Priory' farmhouse...", and repeat the allegation of fraud in July 1996 by
telling Mrs Webster that it was impossible to create life interests. In addition there is
an allegation that the defendants' alleged “failure to carry out any instructions
produced a conflict of interest".
Paragraph 17 is an allegation of reliance by the claimant on the alleged
encouragement “to expect to own ‘The Priory' farmhouse...".
Paragraphs 18 and 19 deal with an offer in July 2005 by the first defendant to retire as
executor and trustee of Captain Webster's will, which was not implemented, even
though the first defendant had allegedly lost the confidence of Mrs Webster and her
children.
Paragraphs 20-22 and 24 deal with the attempt in 2005 by Mrs Webster to instruct
another solicitor to prepare a codicil to her will and the preparation by the defendants
of a further will of Mrs Webster dated 24 May 2006, revoking her will of 2000. This
will had appointed the claimant's father as an executor and trustee, but the 2006 will
appointed the first defendant instead, it is said on the basis that the claimant's father
was then suffering from motor neurone disease. The claimant says that this was
contrary to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.
The claimant pleads an attempted revocation by Mrs Webster of the May 2006 will by
a further will and letter in September 2006.
Paragraph 23 pleads the claimant's father's death on 16 September 2006, and
paragraph 25 pleads the death of Mrs Webster in August 2007. The defendants admit
both.
Paragraph 26 pleads that on 2 June 2008 the defendants wrote to the claimant's
mother Jennifer "to confirm the inheritance position on Valerie's [the grandmother's]
estate".
15
Page 319 of 380
HHJ Paul Matthews
Approved Judgment
Webster v Penley & Anor (Strike-out)
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
Paragraph 27 alleges that the defendants did not remain neutral, “by proactively
litigating against the [claimant's] family...”.
Paragraph 28 alleges a breach of the second defendant's contract of retainer on 22
July 2014 by completing Panel 12 in the Form FR1 relating to the registration of The
Priory incorrectly, with alleged knowledge of the misstatement in question, namely
that only the first defendant “is in actual possession of the property...”. Paragraph 29
refers to this as a “fraudulent title registered at Land Registry”.
Paragraph 29 goes on to allege that the defendants illegally seized the claimant's
possessions and wrongfully evicted him and his children without consent or a court
order, which it is said was an offence under the 1996 Act. Paragraph 30 alleges that
the “illegally obtained title was used to obtain [the claimant's] wrongful arrest by the
Police".
Paragraphs 31 and 32 deal with the possession proceedings brought (successfully) by
the first defendant and Virginia Ashcroft against the claimant in respect of The Priory,
and the later sale by them of the property to a third party.
Paragraph 33 alleges that the defendants “failed to take proper care in an application
to the Home Office" for the exhumation of the claimant's father's remains from the
property.
Paragraph 34 pleads that Virginia Ashcroft brought a claim against the first defendant
which was not notified to the claimant, his mother or his children.
Paragraph 35 pleads the loss and damage allegedly suffered by the claimant and “the
aforesaid St John Webster family”.
The defence
Abuse of process
32.
The defence, filed on 2 July 2021, denies relevant elements of the claims, including
negligence, causation and the losses claimed. It also pleads at paragraph 6:
“This claim is an abuse of the Court's process and yet a further collateral attack
on a multiplicity of judgments relating to the Webster family, all of which are
adverse to the Claimant, including but not limited to:
a. Claim No. HC09C01570 ("the Original Claim”) where by his order of
22 May 2013 HHJ Purle QC dismissed the Claimant's claims, as
Valentine's personal representative, to an interest in The Priory by way
of proprietary estoppel, and to challenge the validity of Valerie's last
will dated 24 May 2006, which was pronounced for in solemn form;
b. Claim No. A00TA241 ("the Possession Proceedings") whereby the
Claimant sought possession of The Priory. The majority of the claim
was struck out by DDJ Orme and the balance by HHJ McCahill QC,
who recorded that the claim was totally without merit.
16
Page 320 of 380
