SUBMISSION FORM OF INDIVIDUAL COMMUNICATIONS TO TREATY BODIES
Please provide answers to all areas of the form. Submissions in languages other than English,
French, Russian or Spanish will not be processed. The completed form should enable treaty bodies
to determine the nature and scope of your complaint for the purposes of registration. If needed, please
include as an attachment any additional, chronologically-ordered factual information. (Maximum word
limit of this attachment: 10,000). Please check the Guidelines for submission of individual
communications to treaty bodies for further assistance on how to complete this form.
1.
Name of Committee to which the communication is submitted:
Committee on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities
نه
3.
4.
State party or States parties concerned:
United Kingdom of Great Britain
Complainant:
First name
Family name
Date of birth
Nationality
Rupert
St John Webster
28/07/1972
British
Contact details of complainant:
Email
Phone number
Address
rupert@webstersystems.co.uk
+44 7740 289100
Red Brick Building
Morlands Road
Glastonbury
Somerset
BA6 9FT
1
5.
Victim (if different from complainant):
First name
Family name
Date of birth
Nationality
Click or tap here to enter text.
St John Webster family
Until 2076
British
6.
Counsel or other representative (if the complainant is represented):
First name
Family name
Click or tap here to enter text.
Click or tap here to enter text.
Email
Click or tap here to enter text.
Phone number
Click or tap here to enter text.
Address
Click or tap here to enter text.
7.
Would you like for the complainant / victim's name to be anonymized in an eventual decision
by the Committee?
☐ Yes
☑ No
8.
Have you submitted the same matter under another procedure of regional / international
investigation or settlement?
☑ Yes
☑ No
If the answer is yes, please indicate the procedure or body, the date of submission, the authors and the
claims invoked, and the decision adopted
The answer is both Yes and No because earlier submissions were made to the European
Court of Human Rights procedure, but found inadmissible, and as further events took place
later submissions were not made to any other procedure. Time limits are in issue because by
the time a submission could be made on the correct form and with copies of all the relevant
documents going back to the 1980's and transcripts of any court judgments a 6-month time
limit had expired. Therefore the procedure was inadmissible, which means that merits could
not have been considered. With respect to merits, as a central theme is alleged discrimination
on a basis of disability (see the Facts and the Claim) and the United Kingdom signed the
Optional Protocol to create a right of submission to the Committee, the latter is considered a
better appointed forum to deal with the matter.
2
Please see https://petition1.netlify.app/un for copies of ECtHR submissions. These show the
following:
Submission 1: Trial
There's a 24 March 2009 order that the author shall bring legal proceedings about a
new will for his 99 years old grandmother.
There's a 23 July 2013 High Court trial decision with £1/2 million in costs.
On 13 February 2014 permission to appeal was refused.
On 23 Feburary 2014 there's a certificate of exhaustion of domestic remedies.
By 13 August 2014 the 6-month rule for an ECtHR application expired. There might
be permission to apply out of time within 6-months of the certificate of exhaustion.
With a full-time job and 3 children it's very difficult to put together any application
that includes every item of evidence going back to the 1980's. It would cost tens of
thousands in solicitors and barristers fees.
On 2 September 2014 the ECtHR can't examine a complaint introduced on 22 August
2014 (within 6-months of the certificate of exhaustion) without a 13 February 2014
transcript of judgment.
On 5 August 2015 the ECtHR can't examine any 17 July 2015 complaint without an 11
June 2015 transcript of judgment (see item 3).
Again on 24 August 2015 the ECtHR can't examine any 12 August 2015 complaint
without copies of all relevant documents.
By now the 6-month time limit for an ECtHR application expired.
Submission 2: Land registration then eviction
After a trial there's some sort of land registration and eviction process, alleged as
unlawful and leading to further legal claims and counter-claims.
On 6 August 2014 the author's land charge on family residential & agricultural
property was cancelled on a basis of issue estoppel (admissibility to court after trial).
There's a 10 March 2015 County Court decision for the family's wrongful evictions.
There's a 23 March 2015 High Court decision against the County Court's wrongful
eviction (and against adverse possession) on a basis of issue estoppel, by default
judgment and marked as “totally without merit”.
So the High Court made a 2 year civil restraint order against the author.
On 28 September 2015 permission to appeal was refused.
By 28 March 2016 the 6-month rule for an ECtHR application expired.
On 15 April 2016 the ECtHR can't examine a (24 March 2016) complaint as a
statement of facts was attached to an application form instead of written in it.
By now the 6-month time limit for an ECtHR application expired.
Submission 3: Estate valuations and human rights
The author is being told that the family farming business has no value when we're
still there working it. So the author brought 3 claims for valuations of the estates of 3
late family members since a trial.
On 11 June 2015 these 3 claims were struck out as issue estopped (inadmissible to
court since a trial).
So the author brought a Human Rights Act claim against the Lord Chancellor.
On 17 November 2016 permssion to appeal was refused.
On 26 April 2017 a civil restraint order was extended.
3
By 17 May 2017 the 6-month rule for an ECtHR application expired.
On 14 September 2017 the ECtHR declared an application (introduced on 28 April
2017) as inadmissible.
On 6 October 2017 permission to appeal extending a civil restraint order was refused.
On 23 November 2017 a Human Rights Act claim was struck out.
On 18 April 2018 permission to appeal was refused.
On 6 September 2018 the ECtHR declared an application (introduced on 9 June
2018) as inadmissible.
By now the 6-month time limit for an ECtHR application expired.
Submission 4: Sale process
After land registrations and evictions there's some sort of sale process, alleged as
unlawful since submission 2. Apparently solicitors had found buyers for the farm but
were refusing to release £1.25 million in sale proceeds before the author was
bankrupted. This is a rabbit hole.
There was a 1 March 2017 statutory demand sent to me for legal costs mostly already
paid by home legal insurers otherwise secured on 99 years old grandmother's estate
by the trial order. So I wrote to the alleged creditor saying I would apply to set aside.
There was no response. I applied to court to set aside. Then I was told that I couldn't
apply to a court because of a civil restraint order. Now, there are 14 days for an
alleged debtor to apply to set aside a statutory demand. Unless the former is subject
to a civil restraint order in respect of an alleged creditor. In that case the former has
to first of all notify the latter of the nature and grounds of an application (already
done) and give them 7 days to respond before applying to a supervising judge with
both notice and response (if any) and a judge has to decide whether an alleged debtor
may apply to court or not. That's full-time work open to abuse of a 14 days time limit
by a creditor with a civil restraint order against a debtor. Further orders are made
including to extend a civil restraint order for 2 more years, until on 14 September
2017 a judge makes an order to allow the application to set aside that's already made.
Without any costs for an opposed application. Meanwhile the creditor already issued
a 7 August 2017 petition for bankruptcy with further costs. On 15 March 2018 the
court gave permission to amend a statutory demand, and refused permission to set it
aside, with yet further costs. The 7 August 2017 petition was then dismissed on 13
November 2018. Though a petition was dismissed, costs didn't follow the event, and
the debtor found liable for costs. However, permission to appeal was granted on
whether permission to apply to set aside under a civil restraint order had been
retrospective (i.e. in time to prevent a petition and its costs). On 23 August 2019 an
appeal was dismissed, with costs. On 7 November 2019 permission for a second
appeal was refused.
On 24 January 2020 the House of Lords private bill examiners refused to allow a
petition for a private government bill.
On 30 January 2020 the World Health Organisation declared the coronavirus
outbreak a public health emergency of international concern.
The 6-month rule for an ECtHR application was extended by 3 months.
By 7 August 2020 the 9-month rule for an ECtHR application expired.
On 20 October 2020 the ECtHR declared an application (introduced on 6 July 2020)
as inadmissible.
Submission 5: Possession order
On 16 January 2020 there's a 2nd possession order for another family home.
Delayed by coronavirus, on 1 February 2021 permission to appeal was refused and
marked as "totally without merit”.
By 1 August 2021 the 6-month rule for an ECtHR application expired.
On 30 September 2021 the ECtHR declared an application (introduced on 9 July
2021) as inadmissible.
On 29 October 2021 the CRPD Committee declared a communication (started on 4
September 2021) as inadmissible because of the 9 July 2021 application to ECtHR.
Unsubmitted item 6: Permission to appeal cancelling land charges
As land charges ought to protect the owner's family from unlawful eviction offences
and breaches of Civil Procedure Rules the author applied for permission to appeal
their cancellation out of time.
In order "to publish words" for an application a 23 March 2015 order "not to publish
words” needed variation. On 22 January 2021 permission to vary a 23 March 2015
order was refused as "totally without merit” with costs. Though words (words that
claim an interest) were allowed to be published anyway.
Meanwhile on 3 November 2020 an extension of time to apply for permission to
appeal was refused as "totally without merit”.
On 10 February 2021 permission to appeal the 3 November 2020 order was refused.
On 17 January 2022 permission to appeal the 22 January 2021 order was refused.
Item 7: Professional negligence claim
Since discovery at trial (buried in hundreds of pages of documents that go back 50
years) the author was advised of a potential claim in professional negligence.
Per the 10-minute story the 8 February 2021 particulars were very difficult to
produce and articulate. The author had pro bono counsel assistance.
On 23 December 2021 any claim (including to remedy alleged discrimination on a
basis of disability) was struck out as time barred and issue estopped (inadmissible to
court after a trial) and by reverse summary judgment and as "totally without merit”
with costs.
On 18 May 2022 permission to appeal was refused.
Item 8: Another eviction
Since a 16 January 2020 2nd possession order there were applications for relief
mainly based around section 9 and Chapter III Housing Act 1988. Any application
was denied as "totally without merit” and permission to appeal was refused, until
permission to appeal was given on whether applying to court was "totally without
merit".
An eviction took place on 18 May 2023, as seen here.
On 8 March 2024 any permission to appeal was refused as “unimportant”.
5
Item 9: Grandmother's garden
Since the 2nd possession order, in the author's view the local council has a duty under
Part IV Rent (Agriculture) Act 1976 to find alternative agricultural land for his
grandmother's market garden.
Notes on admissibility and merit
As the ECtHR keeps to its time limits the first 4 applications weren't completed in
time and the merits weren't considered. It's unknown what time limits were applied
for the next 4 applications declared as inadmissible. On 20 October 2020 the ECtHR
response to submission 4 (started on 4 September 2021) mentioned Articles 6, 13
and 1 of Protocol 1 before declaring it as inadmissible. It's unknown what time limits
would have applied and which if any merits were considered. Likewise for a final 9
July 2021 application.
The ECHR was opened for signature on 4 November 1950 and the UK signed it on
that day. The ECtHR was established in 1959. Both well known as a possible forum
for individual communications. Meanwhile the CRPD is a relatively new Convention
adopted by the General Assembly on 13 December 2006. It was opened for signature
on 30 March 2007 and entered into force on 3 May 2008. The UK signed the
Optional Protocol on 30 March 2007. In passing, the United Nations Declaration on
the Rights of Peasants and Other People Working in Rural Areas was adopted by the
General Assembly on 17 December 2018 though not adopted by the UK. It's become
the author's view that these 2 groups are now recognised as vulnerable compared
with general populations hence the relatively new Convention and Declaration.
The later Convention and Declaration were unknown to the author until around
2020. Under the circumstances of the case and the UK having signed the Optional
Protocol to CRPD to allow individual applications (while neither USA nor UK have
signed the optional protocol to the International Covenant on Civil and Political
Rights) it's the author's view that for the groups recognised as vulnerable the CRPD
Committee is a more appropriate forum than the ECtHR.
Summary
Since the 24 March 2009 “summons" for legal proceedings there were attempted
submissions that were inadmissible under the 6-month rule and so the merits (in
particular on alleged discrimination on a basis of disability) weren't considered. After
9 July 2021 submissions on the author's land charges, professional negligence and
routes of appeal for a 2nd possession order (and underlying alleged discrimination on
a basis of disability) are brought to the CRPD as a more appropriate forum for the
groups now recognised as vulnerable.
As seen from the Facts and the Claim if there was no motor neurone disease, or no
mental disability, there could not be discrimination against persons with disabilities
with "disability clauses” and “disability tax" and a 24 March 2009 "summons".
6
9.
Are you requesting interim measures (to avoid irreparable harm to the complainant/victim) or
measures of protection (to avoid harm or reprisals against the complainant/victim and/or family
members or representatives)?
☐ Yes
☑ No
If yes, indicate what kind of specific measures and justify the request. [word limit: 400]
Click or tap here to enter text.
10. Facts. Please provide a summary of the main facts of the case, in chronological order, including
the dates, and information on administrative/judicial remedies. Please focus on the facts of the individual
case. Information referring to a general context should be included only if relevant, and as brief as
possible. Do not include allegations of violations (these should be included in para. 11 below)
Include information on domestic remedies: Please describe, in chronological order, each step taken
by the victim(s) to raise their claims before courts and/or administrative authorities. Please describe the
date and content of each submission, the authority to which it was submitted, the date of the decision,
and the reason(s) for the decision. If domestic remedies have not been exhausted, please state why
[word limit 2,500]
For a 1 minute introduction, a 10 minute overview and 1 hour overview of facts please see
https://petition1.netlify.app/ which has embedded links to documentary evidence.
Introduction
This is about sticking up for the interests of agricultural workers, persons with
disabilities and their family members. It starts up the International Association for
Agricultural Workers with Disabilities (IAAWD). It's about the treatment of farm
businesses, agricultural workers and persons with disabilities by solicitors and
others, followed by mischief in state courts.
Background
After serving in the war my grandfather bought a freehold farm. He worked as a dairy
farmer there for 40 years, paying off the mortgage. From the 1980's as the former
retired my family worked there starting Taunton Trees and maintaining the rest of
the farm, agricultural and residential properties.
Work
Since my Dad was 17 years old, in the year 1959, he was encouraged by his father to
expect to own the farmhouse and some land. So he later started working there. Other
family members all kept their jobs elsewhere as teachers, housewives and business
people without working the farm.
7
Solicitors
Over the years various wills, trusts and settlements were produced for the farm, farm
houses and land. In which farm residents & workers had a larger stake in the main
farmhouse than others. Until Dad suffers from motor neurone disease (MND), his
brother suffers from an unsound mind, and mother & grandmother is nearly 100
years old. Under these conditions his brother wanted to make sure there's a "buy out
deal" for the main house against the rest of the farm. It turns out that's what father &
grandfather (then deceased) had already instructed solicitors to do but there wasn't
yet any implementation. So that doesn't appear to be unsound. Though with mother
& grandmother an invalid, and in and out of hospital, her solicitors refuse to change
documents given her great age and current health. They were simply dismissed in
favour of new solicitors. Who took matters much further against my Dad and his
family than instructed by his brother. They introduced a disability clause to a new
Will based on MND and on that basis removed my Dad (or his legal representative)
as an executor. To appoint instead a person who suffers from an unsound mind. I
don't think that they understood the disability conditions.
Incommunicado
The disability clauses introduced without asking my Dad what he wanted to do, or
whether he wanted to be replaced, or who he wanted to replace him, nor indicating to
him or his family anything of what's going on. That's aggravating.
Death & dispute
Dad and grandmother died. The new solicitors reported form IHT400 to HMRC
without agricultural relief to inheritance tax. A letter was sent to my mother telling
us that tax is liable and gathering interest. A family working at a farm for some 65
years expects agricultural relief to IHT. If nobody works the farm, it's not expected,
but otherwise it is. So you might think that's possible tax fraud. Or that this is a
disability tax. What are the solicitors thinking? A second opinion was that there's
already an interest in the farmhouse and Taunton Trees to be reflected in tax returns.
Court application
The new solicitors rejected any second opinion. On 24 March 2009 I was ordered to
issue legal proceedings with respect to the deceased's Will.
Trial
I brought a complaint about the situation to London High Court. On 24 July 2013 the
judge found for a new Will. I was ordered to pay approximately £1/2 million in costs
to the solicitors and their representatives.
That sets a very off-putting precedent against anyone who sticks up for agricultural
workers with disabilities, possible alleged tax fraud or discriminatory disability tax.
Along with a second opinion.
8
Maybe the judge did accept a second opinion but in a strange way. The 10-minute
story explains a decision that whether or not parents & grandparents encouraged
family members to carry on the farm we benefit from your own quarters rent-free
and benefit from rent-free land for Taunton Trees and that means that 20+ years of
unpaid work and investment in the farm isn't detrimental after we were encouraged
to rely on future ownership.
As the farm is the family's principal home, and there's not a spare £1/2 million for
legal costs, that's secured on grandmother's estate "as an administration expense" to
pay for solicitors.
Courts are a little bit crazy
From now on I was told any matter that relates to the farm including work and
residencies there is "issue estopped" by the trial decision. On 23 March 2015 I was
told by Bristol High Court that the family isn't allowed a defence against evictions.
Whereas solicitors are allowed to now claim for possession. For example this order
says that arguments to defend evictions could and should have been brought before
the court in a single trial. Land charges that I held were cancelled, the farmhouse
registered at Land Registry for the 1st time as though nobody's resident, locks are
changed and doors and windows nailed shut, with police involved on a basis that
people still working there is a breach of the peace.
Debate
Kicking someone out of their house without a court order is unlawful but police say
that's a civil matter. In the civil courts a legal doctrine of issue estoppel (a kind of
admissibility to justice issue) that's applied unequally is, in my view, a violation of
basic legal rights. What ought to happen is that either all arguments are equally
admissible or equally inadmissible. What could and should have been brought
before the court in a single trial is a claim or counter-claim for possession. High
Court trial judges, Court of Appeal judges, trial barristers, solicitors and representing
solicitors all know that. So you may wonder why any such application isn't brought
before the court in a single trial because it can't be down to residential occupiers &
agricultural workers to proactively defend claims or counter-claims not brought
before the court. Neither was an order for possession made on the court's own
motion. Which is why the second opinion was accepted, but in a very strange way.
The 10-minute story shows that parents & grandparents didn't want evictions. The
(new) solicitors didn't bring a claim for possession and so they require permission to
appeal the trial decision. Except any applications by me for permission to appeal on
any point are refused and on 8 March 2024 I've been told that nothing's important
enough for an appeal.
What are the courts listening to?
In this mischief the court hasn't listened to so much as 1 thing from the legal owner
of the farm, agricultural workers there, long-term residents, persons with physical
disabilities, nor the nearly 100 year old mother & grandmother who tried to set aside
the disability clauses added to a new Will. See the 10-minute story.
Statutory protection after a trial
Having a license for your own quarters along with full-time agricultural work creates
a Housing Act 1988 assured agricultural occupancy. Like the second opinion was
getting at from the start. There's trust of land legislation to prevent evictions from
trusts of land without people's consent or a court order. To get a court order the
record shows that you need a single trial. Look at the order produced after trial and
all it refers to is a Will. Either a single trial hasn't happened, or not only are
fundamental housing rights going to be alleged as violated but also the state alleged
as guilty of an offence under section 1 Protection from Eviction Act 1977. Other UK
families benefit from statutory provisions. To allow unequal admissibility to defeat
state legislation is not only wrong but a serious procedural or other irregularity.
Finally, other persons with disabilities and their family members benefit from
Disability Discrimination Act and Equality Act. The UK's Housing, Rent, Wills,
Trusts, Inheritance and Protection from Eviction Acts don't mention people with
disabilities and their family. The IAAWD needs to work to change discriminatory
outcomes.
Disability and negligence
Since discovery at trial the author was advised that there's a financial remedy in
professional negligence. Per the 1 hour story it was very difficult to draft particulars
of claim, even with help from pro bono counsel. In brief, there's an initial failure to
complete instructions from the legal owner (the author's grandfather) that residents
in the farmhouse shall have life interests there (which exist in practise anyway) and
others have a property deal for the residue by swapping other farm properties. The
failure to complete appears to be based on nonsensical tax concerns (according to the
National Tax Helpline) that life interests cause excess inheritance taxes “so the house
might well have to be sold to pay the tax" but excess tax returns are reported anyway,
and ultimately on a basis of disability.
It's possible fraud by a solicitor not to carry out client instructions in order to
allegedly save taxes, but then levy the taxes anyway, and as a disability tax. Then
cause a trial about a new will when an earlier will was written to complete the life
interests. Now refused again but this time on a basis of disability. Followed by
unlawful activity after a trial with respect to land registry applications & evictions
without any possession claim or order for possession.
There's alleged breach of duty of care by applying to the Home Office for a license to
exhume human remains by falsely declaring that the author suffers from an unsound
mind (a mental disability) therefore need not be informed. To ensure the author and
his family can't object, require compensation, or negotiate payment of £1/2 million
in legal costs or any provision whatsoever under the national Inheritance Act.
In terms of a remedy had life interests & a property deal completed before then all
the beneficiaries (until the year 2076) would be better off because everyone would
have invested proceeds in other properties with better returns, and avoided later
dispute about a farm and £1/2 million in legal costs.
10
On 23 December 2021 the judge struck out a negligence claim under Limitation Act,
and issue estoppel, by reverse summary judgment and as “totally without merit” with
costs.
On 18 May 2022 the Court of Appeal refused permission to appeal by telling the
author that it's misconceived to seek a remedy for eviction by summary or default
judgment as prevented by the CPR under a professional negligence claim (for
damages for breaches of the CPR). That written points in Skeleton Arguments on
s.32 Limitation Act aren't “relied apon before the judge” (unbelievable because that
means there's no point writing Skeleton Arguments). That possibly fraudulent land
registration & evictions are statute barred by 14B of the Limitation Act as more than
15 years ago (which was in the year 2006 before there was any land registration or
evictions) and there's not a claim for fraudulent breach of trust (when the PoC
contains repeated allegations of possible fraud). That there's no loss to the author (or
his family or anyone else) on any disability point. That alleged discrimination on a
basis of disability (and the author's claim that without motor neurone disease there
wouldn't be any legal action) doesn't “add anything to the preceding grounds”.
To finish with "this was a plain case of abuse of process" that's unequally applied.
Eviction 2
Per the 1 hour story since 23 March 2015 when Bristol High Court refused to allow a
defence to eviction on a basis of unequal admissibility the author's family were told
by the High Court that maternal grandmother's house “was available” instead of our
own quarters at the farm.
Maternal grandmother in her old age was suffering from dementia and required full-
time care. My mother widowed having lost her husband to MND decided to "half
move" away from the farm to go and care for her mother.
Per the 1 hour story “green great granny" still worked every day in her market garden
as she had since the 1960's. Her celebrated garden (by national newspapers and TV
programs) and very old age means that she couldn't move in with her daughter & our
family at the farm.
On the author's family being evicted from the farm and told on 23 March 2015 that
green great granny's house is available, the author wrote to her landlords (for over 70
years since the year 1948) on 21 May 2015 about the situation. Their response was a
4 June 2015 Section 8 Housing Act Notice requiring possession of her house because
of “your confirmation that you reside at the property with your daughter and
grandson. This is in breach of the agreement.” It's a pity that they didn't proceed
because look, everyone from both houses ought to have been joined into a single trial,
or have applied for permission to appeal.
Again, green great granny as a full-time agricultural worker having a license for your
own quarters (in this case a leasehold tenancy) creates another Housing Act 1988
assured agricultural occupancy.
11
The landlords did not proceed. 3 years go by with the family living together and
looking after green great granny suffering from dementia until she died on 25
December 2017. By then a Housing Act 1988 assured agricultural occupancy (or
security of tenure under Rent Acts since 1948) creates a right of succession for 1
family member living with her for more than 2 years before she died.
After she died the landlords issue an 11 April 2018 Notice to Quit to the author and
his mother as their tenants. The author's mother volunteered to move out on 31 July
2018. On 18 August 2018 the landlords issued proceedings against “Persons
Unknown". As a person living with his grandmother the author qualifies for her
home legal insurance. The insurers drafted a defence and the author sent landlords a
Notice to Enfranchise the tenancies (since 1948) under Leasehold Reform Act 1967.
There was no response to the Notice to Enfranchise.
On 27 December 2018 the author and his mother were named as defendants instead
of Persons Unknown. Yeovil County Court ordered the claim adjourned and, if no
further application was made, to be dismissed 6 months later on 6 June 2019.
During that time the landlords made an offer to purchase the house that the author
couldn't afford after (a) the £1/2 million in costs for the farm, and (b) a surveyor's
report that the rundown condition of the house makes it's unmortgageable.
On 10 June 2019 the landlords brought another claim against “Persons Unknown".
The author filled out a defence form on a basis that it's abuse of the process of the
court when an identical claim was dismissed on 6 June 2019. The legal insurers
considered the defence.
The landlords applied to strike out the defences. The legal insurers pulled funding a
week before the strike out hearing. The author was lucky to find representation pro
bono at the last minute. On 16 January 2020 a defence was struck out and an order
for possession made by judgment in default of defence. The transcript of the
proceedings shows the district judge tells counsel that “in view of my determination,
it follows that your client's a trespasser”. That means that a person looking after his
grandmother suffering from dementia (and her garden) is a trespasser after she dies.
On 12 January 2021 (delayed because of the coronavirus pandemic) permission to
appeal was refused. The author was told that defences, notice to enfranchise and pro
bono counsel on both 27 December 2018 and 16 January 2020 fail to articulate Rent
Act or Housing Act security of tenure points before the court. Whereas a 29 August
2018 Notice to Enfranchise relies on rights of a deceased's family members, and the
16 January 2020 transcript of proceedings shows pro bono counsel raising “a
potential right to succession point under schedule 1 of the Rent Act 1977 because he's
a family member and he was living in Bondip Farm for in excess of two years and
living with his grandmother.” A tenancy or license started since the year 1948.
The author was told that a judge is entitled to make an order for possession by
default judgment when that exceeds the court's authority under Civil Procedure
Rules CPR 55 at 55.7(2) and (3) and (4) in particular at (4) Part 12 default judgment
is not available in possession claims. It looks like the state's judges got the law wrong.
12
Therefore, in my opinion, it's the court's bailiffs who were trespassers when they
broke down the kitchen doors and threw me (and thereby my 3 children) out on 18
May 2023.
On 8 March 2024 I was told by the Court of Appeal that none of these matters are
important.
11.
Claim. Please explain how and why you consider that the facts and circumstances described
violate your rights/ the victim(s)' rights. Please specify which rights you consider to have been violated
(if possible, identify the articles under the relevant treaty) [word limit 600]
Part 1 (531 words)
1. Since dismissal as legal owners on a basis of disability, and a disability clause in a
new will without amendment the author has been told that all the jobs at the farm
including looking after elderly parents are “mutual family support” without legal value.
Alleged to violate Articles 1 (purpose of CRPD), 5 (equality and non-discrimination),
12 (equal recognition before the law), 13 (access to justice), 14 (liberty and security of
the person), 16 (freedom from exploitation, violence and abuse), 19 (living
independently and being included in the community), 22 (respect for privacy), 27 (work
and employment), 28 (adequate standard of living and social protection) ("The
Articles").
2. No payment for £339,859 invoices for works at the farm are alleged to violate articles
27 and 28.
3. Likewise, inheritance tax on the farm and Taunton Trees reported without agricultural
relief nor Housing Act 1988 assured agricultural occupancy are alleged as a disability
tax that violates the Articles.
4. A "stare decisis" point is alleged to violate the Articles from Henry v Henry [2010] 1 All
ER 988 where "rent-free occupation of the property had not extinguished his equity"
but here rent-free occupation of the property has extinguished the equity.
5. Likewise, Maria Simona Bellini v. Italy (3 October 2022, Communication No. 51/2018)
where the Committee adopted a view that support for family members with disabilities
has legal value instead of "mutual family support" without legal value.
6. The farm's owner instructed life interests in the farmhouse that now fail to complete
because of (a) alleged professional negligence (b) after an earlier will was written to
complete now a new will dismisses legal owners on a basis of disability and adds a
disability clause, and (c) unequal admissibility to the state courts after a trial. Alleged
to violate The Articles.
7. Likewise to cancel land charges, register land to exclude residents so that police can
remove them, and unequal admissibility to court after trial is alleged to breach articles
1, 5, 12, 13 (equalities) and 16, 19, 22 and 28 (social protection).
8. Reading section 49 Senior Courts Act 1981 and decisions on "a single trial" unequal
admissibility to court instead of permission to appeal is alleged to violate the Articles
by telling residents there's no protection from eviction because they could or should
have already defended a claim for possession that wasn't before the court at trial.
13
9. Alleged breach of Civil Procedure Rules (“CPR”) that prevent summary or default
judgment in claims for possession, denial of Housing Act 1988 assured agricultural
occupancy and denial of sections 12 & 13 TOLATA creates alleged offences under
section 1 Protection from Eviction Act 1977 ("PFE") alleged to violate The Articles.
10. The Home Office exhumation license for buried human remains on a false basis that
the author has an unsound mind (a mental disability) is alleged to violate the Articles.
11. Giving the family no say before the state or authorities like HMRC, Land Registry,
Police, Home Office, and Courts. Whereas every other family line has legal owners
including with unsound minds giving everyone else some say. This treatment is an
undesirable precedent for other persons with disabilities and their family members.
Part 2 (202 words)
12. Subsequently at "green great granny" house the courts got the law wrong breaching
Civil Procedure Rules Parts 55.7 (2) & (3) on defences and (4) default judgment of
possession claims alleged to violate the Articles. That could have been remedied by
section 9 Housing Act 1988. There may be systemic breaches of CPR in the state in
question.
13. Causing s.1 PFE offences again alleged to violate the Articles. Not only under CPR
but for 1 family member to give up keys to estate agents can't surrender a lease "by
operation of law" because if estate agents locked out other family members (and the
family member decided by agreement to have an assured tenancy under Schedule 3
Housing Act 1988) they would be guilty of an offence under s.1 PFE that's not legal.
14. Refusing the author permission by wrongly saying that his legal teams didn't refer to
Rent Acts or Housing Act so enactments don't apply. That's crazy. The author is told
that nothing is important enough for appeal, and totally without merit. To determine
that family members who help look after persons with dementia are trespassers at
some arbitrary time after the latter dies, alleged to violate The Articles.
Part 3 (198 words)
15.2 alleged offences under PFE causes alleged offence in Protection from Harassment
Act 1997 by the state, and alleged violation of the Articles balanced within.
16. Finally, a professional negligence claim as set out in the 1 hour story. Brought against
loss of life interests (per no 6 above) and loss by disability discrimination. To dismiss
legal owners on a basis of disability then declare there's no jobs with the farm is
possible fraud. A judge decided that the dates of instructions in March 1992, 6 April
1992 and July 1996 starts the clock for a claim whether or not they're unknown until
disclosure at trial 20 years later. Though there are 2 issues without limitation (i) tax
recovery and (ii) fraud, and (iii) in respect of disability there's a 30 year time limit. For
a claim against disability discrimination brought by 2021 a time limit is 1991. That's
before 1992. That's not out of time and a decision otherwise is alleged to violate the
Articles. Anything else was struck out as abuse. The Court of Appeal told the author
that he didn't rely on his own Skeleton Arguments. It's nonsensical therefore alleged
to violate the Articles.
The author submits that these parts 1 to 3 have violated The Articles and requests just
satisfaction, costs and aggravated and exemplary damages.
14
Possible remedial steps
To try and prevent alleged violations happening again and to other persons with disabilities
requires better recognition of agricultural workers and persons with disabilities as vulnerable
groups, by wider publicity for this case and the work of the International Association for
Agricultural Workers with Disabilities (IAAWD). As training for courts to recognize that (a)
"mutual family support" has legal value, (b) agricultural work & accommodation creates a
Housing Act 1988 assured agricultural occupancy reflected in taxes and Land Registration,
and (c) the words "in a single trial" are added to Civil Procedure Rules overriding objectives,
and to section 49 Senior Courts Act 1981.
Likewise better application of Part 55 Civil Procedure Rules on claims for possession of
residential property to counter arguments that family members who have been caring for
parents and grandparents with disabilities who have died are trespassers. CPR 55.7 already
says "in a claim against trespassers rule 15.2 does not apply and the defendant need not file
a defence" and "Part 12 (default judgment) does not apply in a claim to which this Part applies".
A state court ought to have a duty to list a claim against family members of a person with
dementia who has died for trial to properly determine their status (and the agricultural status).
Parliament ought to debate and introduce additional legislative provisions to better protect
these 2 vulnerable groups (agricultural workers and persons with disabilities) with security of
tenure rights for them and their family members.
Finally, just satisfaction in costs and aggravated and exemplary damages would alert more
solicitors to screen for the issues raised in this case. The costs and damages could be used
to pay for experiments to cure motor neurone disease (ALS).
12.
Date, place and signature
Date
20/05/2024
Place Glastonbury, United Kingdom
Signature of the complainant(s) and victim(s) (if different and able
Reh
Signature of the Counsel (if the complainant is represented):
to sign):
15
