that's probably what I'll be invited to address. I think the question is whether or not, taking
your case at its highest, which is that your client had keys, or probably had keys, you
would say, is there a triable issue? And obviously you would say there is.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Okay. Thank you.
MR TREVIS: I think I've finished, but could I just turn my back very briefly.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes, of course.
MR TREVIS: (Pause). I think the last point that Mr Webster would like me to make is further
to the tenancies terminable after death or marriage. This is the point that I suspect was
made actually in the House of Commons by Sir George Young, and it's on page 2. I think
it's said that
--
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: What am I looking at in your client's bundle?
MR TREVIS: This is the document that says, "Tenancies terminable after death or marriage."
Oh, it wasn't in the bundle. I can hand that in. I hope my learned friend has a copy of this.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: (Handed). Thank you.
MR TREVIS: Thank you. So, the specific point that Mr Webster wants to make -- and this is
obviously at a time when the amendment was inserted, the Prince of Wales amendments, I
think it's called and at the top of page 2 of this document it says:
"This new clause, with its associated group of amendments will amend the
1967 Act by adding a new section and modifying the existing section 3. It
would enable a leaseholder who is granted a long lease on a house before
18 April 1980, which would qualify under the 1967 Act [in my respectful
submission, this tenancy commenced under the definition of the 1967 Act
in 1948, so it's a qualifying tenancy] except that it contains a clause which
renders it terminable by notice after death, for example, the last survivor of
any issue of King George V alive at the time of the grant, hence the name
of the Prince of Wales clause to acquire the freehold interest."
I think the point he wishes to make is that this a long lease under section 3 of the 1967 Act,
so potentially this is a lease that could be subject to enfranchisement.
Sir, Mr Webster has provided a draft order attached to this skeleton argument.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes, I've seen that.
20
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 213 of 380
MR TREVIS: I think all I can really do is invite you to make the order in the terms that have
been sought.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes. I don't have a counterclaim for a declaration of the rights to
enfranchise before me though, do I?
MR TREVIS: No.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: No. I don't think that's relief that I can properly grant today if I am
with your client, but thank you for drawing that to my attention.
MR TREVIS: Yes. Thank you, sir.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: I'm going to take some time. Is there anything in response you want
to say on the law, Mr Clarke?
MR CLARKE: Only very briefly on the res judicata point.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes.
REPLY BY MR CLARKE
MR CLARKE: I can bullet-point. I don't want to take any more time that I need so I won't
revisit the statutory provisions as such. On the rights to succession under schedule 1 of the
1977 Act, you've made the point that it's not in the pleadings but it's worse than that, of
course, because it wasn't proffered before submissions by my learned friend today. In my
submission, that's wholly too late to seek, if that's what is sought, an amendment to the
statements of case of the defence of the second defendant. It's entirely fair to expect that to
be dealt with on the hoof today in that way. In my submission, that ought not to be a point
taken into account.
The res judicata point I can deal with quite briefly. The fundamental flaw in my
learned friend's argument is that there was no adjudication of the claim to enfranchisement
by this automatic striking out of the order of DJ Collins because, as is clear from the face
of the order and is trite, there needs to be an entirely separate application to hear the
enfranchisement claim, and that's never been brought. So it wasn't considered in this case.
There was no hearing of the merits of that case. It wasn't on foot. What there was was a
defence which simply said, "We've brought a claim that needs to be determined in the
future; not by you today, court, but by another forum." So it wasn't adjudicated upon, it
was just raised as an outstanding issue to give rise to the submission that under schedule 3
to the 1967 Act there's a moratorium upon serving a notice to quit. That's the point that
21
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 214 of 380
arose in the first proceedings, not the merits of the claim. That was never going to be dealt
with in those proceedings. It's not res judicata, it wasn't on foot and it wasn't considered
in any event. It's an argument wholly, in my submission, without merit.
In the case of res judicata in any event, not in possession claim, clearly, because
the possession's ongoing, so it's perfectly acceptable to bring a possession claim once and,
if the possession continues, to bring it again.
So, for both of those reasons in my submission, there simply isn't a res judicata
point, principally because there was no adjudication on the underlying claim which has
never been put before the court for the court to consider the merits in the first place.
Sir, unless you wish to hear from me on any of the other points, I don't feel the need
to revisit those at this juncture.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you. It's been some time since I've had to look at it either as a
judge or in practice, but if memory serves in terms of the authorities on res judicata and
abuse of process, the leading case was always Johnson v Gore Wood, and that indicated
that the court has to take a broad merits-based approach to the question of whether or not
any proceedings are an abuse of process. Is there anything in terms of the law that I've just
summarised that is regarded as wrong or that you want to address me on?
MR CLARKE: Sir, no, thank you.
MR TREVIS: Sir, no, thanks.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: All right. Thank you very much. I will take some time just to gather
my thoughts. I hope to get you back in probably by about 4.15 pm, all right?
MR TREVIS: Thank you, sir.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you.
(3.42 pm)
(4.46 pm)
(A short adjournment)
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Apologies for the slight delay. I have a couple of points of
clarification, if I may. The will of Patricia Marrow appointed Jennifer St John Webster,
Miranda Maybee and Priscilla Keyser as executors. I don't think I've seen a copy of the
grant that was made. Were Miranda and Priscilla still alive?
22
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 215 of 380
MR TREVIS: One of them has died and the other lives in Scotland. Miranda has died,
apparently.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Did she predecease Patricia?
MR TREVIS: She predeceased her, yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Miranda predeceased, Priscilla lives in Scotland?
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Was a grant of probate taken here?
MR TREVIS: Sorry, I can't answer that. (Pause). I think it must be unlikely, simply because
there appeared to have been three executors appointed, that Jennifer St John Webster
would have done anything. One of the other executors has died and the other one, living in
Scotland, has taken absolutely no part.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you.
MR TREVIS: So I think it's highly unlikely.
MR CLARKE: If it helps, sir, I understand a search was taken and it was blank.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you very much. The second query I had is that I've been
looking at a copy of the notice of August 2018 at page 24. At page 92 of my bundle is
another copy of that notice. Over the page, that includes the schedule which I don't think
was at page 24. Obviously, that includes paragraph 7, which refers to Mrs Marrow, and
that, "She was my grandmother," which obviously is right; that's the family tree, isn't it?
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes. Okay. It's common ground, obviously, that that schedule
accompanied the notice. Yes. All right. Thank you. Very well. I'll give judgment.
(4.48 pm)
(5.31 pm)
(Judgment given)
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: All right. Is there anything else I haven't addressed?
MR CLARKE: Sir, only a very minor point. There's one argument you didn't address on
subsection 3(2), which was the point that was made in submissions that it needed to be the
same tenant.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Well, I think it follows from what I have said that there is no evidence
as to who the ... Well, I have no copy of the 1948 tenancy and I think the points I've made
23
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 216 of 380
in respect of that hold true as regards the identity in any event, but I don't think I need to
address that further. Are your clients prepared to give the second defendant some grace to
clear his possessions? I know you said ...
MR CLARKE: I'm instructed 28 days would be appropriate, sir.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you. Mr Trevis, in view of my determination, it follows that
your client's a trespasser. I don't have any discretion to give him any longer than claimants
are prepared to offer so it's got to be 28 days.
MR TREVIS: It's got to be 28 days, sir, yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Thank you. (Pause). I think it's 13 February, isn't it? So, the order
will read that upon hearing counsel for the claimant and counsel for the second defendant,
it is ordered that the second defendant shall give the claimant possession of Bondip
Farmhouse, Kingsdon, Somerton, by 4.00 pm on 13 February 2020, the claimant's
application dated 26th of the 9th 2019 having been allowed. Yes. Consequential orders?
MR CLARKE: Matter of costs, sir. Does the court have a schedule? I do have copies.
MR TREVIS: I haven't seen it. That'd be great, thanks.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: (Pause). Do you have spares? (Inaudible) schedule for Mr St John
Webster. (Pause). £45,000?
MR CLARKE: Yes, sir. Would you like me to make submissions on it now or wait for
Mr Trevis to ...?
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Well, I have to say -- well, let me hear from the parties first before I
say anything. Mr Trevis, what do you want to say? Obviously, on the principle of costs, I
assume there's no --
MR TREVIS: There's no dispute about that subject to quantum, and I'd say I think probably give
or take 10 per cent of the amount that's being claimed would be a perfectly acceptable
amount. I have to say that I haven't been through the detail here but there seems to be not
only a number of solicitors involved but a number of counsel involved and advices and so
on and so forth. And I'm struggling to understand how -- and forgive me for using such an
expression -- such a grotesquely high figure can be right in possession proceedings that I
think have been commenced under CPR 55 -- how they can be sustained by my learned
friend.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes.
24
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 217 of 380
MR TREVIS: I mean, obviously, so far as today is concerned, the fee that my learned friend has
incurred and his instructing solicitor -- well, I'm not sure that the instructing solicitor's
presence here is actually necessary in this day and age, but I certainly wouldn't object to
my learned friend's fee for this hearing, nor indeed in relation to the hearing that occurred
before you, I think in October. But the amount of actual necessary work, in my respectful
submission, has probably been relatively minimal. I mean there's been an application to
strike out before the court and the preparation of that no doubt is perfectly reasonable.
The other thing is that it's difficult to see from this costs schedule as to the extent of
the claims for costs because I think, given such a high costs claimed, it's not unreasonable
for the defendant to query whether the costs of the previous proceedings have been
incorporated into this costs schedule. Certainly if one takes the application that was
made
--
and, after all, the possession claim only came in on 11 June -- how on earth can
£44,000 be appropriate?
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes. I don't want to put anybody to further expense paradoxically,
but it's 5.40 pm in this hearing listed for two hours. It's not the parties' fault, and (Several
inaudible words) the case, there was a little bit of delay at the start, but, given the
quantum of the costs, I think it requires a bit of care to deal with that, because on the face
of it, Mr Clarke, my instinctive view is that the costs schedule will take some justification.
I'll put it as neutrally as that, if I may. I don't (Several inaudible words) anything without
hearing from you in detail if necessary on costs, because there may be submissions you
want to make about how involved it was and previous proceedings and so forth. So I don't
want to prejudge the issue of the amount or the issue of the question of proportionality.
But Mr Trevis is right to (Several inaudible words) proportionality before me.
I think what I'm minded to do is, partly because it's so late as well, to make an
order, because it's conceded, that the second defendant shall pay the claimant's costs of the
proceedings subject to summary assessment if not agreed; in default of agreement, there's
liberty to apply back to the court for a hearing on the issue of assessment of costs with a
time estimate of one hour. I don't think it would be fair on the second defendant to deal
with it in a rush today given the amount that's being sought, and it actually wouldn't be fair
on the claimant either.
25
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 218 of 380
MR CLARKE: I understand, sir. Of course, I would say I can deal with this, but I appreciate
that it needs to be dealt with properly. May I just very quickly turn my back to see if I
have any instructions that impact upon (Inaudible). (Pause). I think your proposal meets
with approval, sir.
MR TREVIS: Sir, because of the size of the costs
--
the hearing was only two hours so on the
face of it summary assessment is appropriate -- but because of the quantum of costs -- and
forgive me, sir, I haven't brought my White Book with me
summary assessment is actually appropriate.
--
I'm just wondering whether
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: I did think about ordering detailed assessment but it's a two-hour
application.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: And the rules mandate that it should be a summary assessment.
MR TREVIS: They do, yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: It may be that the issue of proportionality will be the main point that I
need to hear from the parties on generally anyway, because that trumps other issues
MR TREVIS: Yes.
--
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: - unless it's indemnity costs. And so, because of the costs that will
be associated with a detailed assessment, notwithstanding the quantum of the bill -- and it
would only be the quantum of the bill that would be prompting me to put it off for detailed
I think probably the most proportionate and sensible way is to put it off for a
proper argument and summary assessment.
assessment
--
MR TREVIS: Yes. And the other thing is, sir, just a little bit of concern about listing and that
sort of thing. Can the order just say that it's reserved to yourself?
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes, it has to be, doesn't it?
MR TREVIS: Yes.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Okay. So, I'll say that the second defendant shall pay the claimant's
costs of these proceedings. There's no argument that it should be anything other than the
standard basis, is there?
MR CLARKE: Well, sir, to be candid, I did think about that, but in reality I'm not sure there's
anything about the way in which the second defendant has prosecuted the claim as such to
26
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 219 of 380
indicate that. We say, of course, it's got no merit, but that isn't sufficient for indemnity
costs.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: No. It was not an application to strike out in some respect, because
it's one that I'm being asked to adjudicate upon a factual basis for strike out. Of course I've
taken the defendant's case at its height and found against him on that point, but that doesn't
mean necessarily that he was wrong to oppose the application to such an extent that
indemnity costs should follow.
MR CLARKE: No. Again, could I just see if my.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes.
MR CLARKE: (Pause). Yes, I'm instructed to go with my instinct. My take on this is that it
was a bad defence but that doesn't of itself mean that there's an entitlement to indemnity
costs, although we will raise that and I'm entitled to raise that as part of the proportionality.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: You accept it should be on the standard basis, but you will doubtless
deploy arguments that you see fit about the quantum in due course, and proportionality.
MR CLARKE: Of course, sir, yes. I think it's probably best dealt with in that way.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Yes. For what it's worth, I have no doubt that the determination I've
reached is the right one, but I'm not convinced that the conduct of the defendant was such
as to justify indemnity costs in this case. So, the second defendant shall pay the claimant's
costs of these proceedings on the standard basis to be subject of summary assessment, if
not otherwise agreed, and there is liberty to the parties to apply for a summary assessment
hearing. Upon any such application the matter shall be listed before District Judge Walsh
with a time estimate of one hour?
MR CLARKE: I think so, sir.
MR TREVIS: Actually, my instinct is it's going to take longer. An hour would be appropriate
but I just have a feeling that it is going to take a bit longer than that.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: Well, let's give it 90 minutes and then we're not going to run over
again.
MR TREVIS: Yes, thanks.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: All right. Are there any other applications?
MR CLARKE: No, thank you, sir.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: No. Mr Trevis?
27
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 220 of 380
MR TREVIS: No, thank you, sir.
THE DISTRICT JUDGE: No. Thank you everybody for staying late. All right.
MR TREVIS: Thank you, sir.
(5.47 pm)
(Hearing concluded)
28
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 221 of 380
Epiq Europe Ltd hereby certify that the above is an accurate and complete record of the
proceedings or part thereof.
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
29
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 222 of 380
