Case No: B30BS071
IN THE HIGH COURT OF JUSTICE
Neutral Citation Number: [2021] EWHC 353 (Ch)
BUSINESS AND PROPERTY COURTS IN BRISTOL
PROPERTY TRUSTS AND PROBATE LIST (ChD)
2 Redcliff Street
Redcliffe
Bristol BS1 6GR
BEFORE:
HIS HONOUR JUDGE PAUL MATTHEWS
BETWEEN:
Friday, 22 January 2021
Claimants/Respondents
(1) ALISON VIRGINIA ASHCROFT
(2) JOHN FRANCIS PENLEY
-and-
RUPERT JOLYON RICHARD ST JOHN WEBSTER
Defendant/Applicant
MR O WOODING appeared on behalf of the First Claimant/Respondent
The Second Claimant/Respondent appeared in person
MR R TREVIS appeared on behalf of the Defendant/Applicant
JUDGMENT
(Approved)
Digital Transcription by Epiq Europe Ltd,
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol, BS32 4NE
Web: www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/ Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
(Official Shorthand Writers to the Court)
This Transcript is Crown Copyright. It may not be reproduced in whole or in part other than in accordance with
relevant licence or with the express consent of the Authority. All rights are reserved.
WARNING: reporting restrictions may apply to the contents transcribed in this document, particularly if the case
concerned a sexual offence or involved a child. Reporting restrictions prohibit the publication of the applicable
information to the public or any section of the public, in writing, in a broadcast or by means of the internet, including
social media. Anyone who receives a copy of this transcript is responsible in law for making sure that applicable
restrictions are not breached. A person who breaches a reporting restriction is liable to a fine and/or imprisonment.
For guidance on whether reporting restrictions apply, and to what information, ask at the court office or take legal
advice.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 223 of 380
1.
2.
3.
JUDGE PAUL MATTHEWS: This is an application by notice dated 12 October 2020
by Mr Webster to vary an order which was made by HHJ McCahill QC on 23 March
2015. It has been heard remotely via the MS Teams video platform. The application is
to remove a clause from that order, which it states as 3(c). But it is accepted that it is in
fact clause 5(3)(c). I will come back to what it says. The application is not supported by
a separate witness statement but only by the evidence contained in box 10 of the
application notice, which is comparatively short. It says:
"Defendant applies: that clause (3)(c) of the 23 March 2015 order is
removed; to serve a skeleton argument in application
CH-2020-000194 for permission to appeal a 6 August 2014 order
out of time under claim number HC09C01570; to bring any claim
under the Trusts of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996
sections 12 to 15; to bring a claim in professional negligence against
the second defendant/his firm; to send a communication to the
United Nations Disability Committee under article 1 of the Optional
Protocol to the Convention on the Rights of Persons with
Disabilities; to serve evidence in new claim BL-2019-BRS-000031
between the first and second defendants; and to serve evidence in
any other action that is commenced by any party. The HC09C01570
skeleton argument is attached to this application. A copy of the
23 March 2015 order is attached to this application."
(Quote unchecked)
The order of HHJ McCahill QC of 23 March 2015 followed a lengthy and detailed
judgment given by the judge which was given ex tempore and the transcript for which
covered more than 20 pages. That judgment and then the order implementing it were
made following an application which was made by Mrs Ashcroft and Mr Penley by
notice dated 23 May 2015. That application was made in two separate proceedings,
B30BS107 and B30BS071, and the order dealt with both. What the order effectively said
(and I am summarising) in relation to claim B30BS107 (where Mr Webster was claimant
and Mrs Ashcroft and Mr Penley were defendants) was, first, that the claimant's
application to amend his particulars of claim was refused as totally without merit;
second, that the claimant's claim to vary the interim injunction in B30BS071 was to be
treated as made in that claim and dealt with further on in the order; third, that the claim
B30BS107 was struck out; and fourth, that the claimant (that is Mr Webster) was to pay
the defendants' costs. That took up the first four paragraphs of the order.
Then we come to claim B30BS071, in which Mrs Ashcroft and Mr Penley were the
claimants and Mr Webster was the defendant. At paragraph 5 of the order, HHJ
McCahill QC effectively entered judgment in default of a defence in favour of the
claimants. Then there are a number of subparagraphs set out. The first stays the claim
for damages with liberty to restore it. The second makes a declaration that the claimants
are the freehold owners of The Priory. The third, which is the matter which we are
concerned with, grants an injunction against the defendant (Mr Webster), prohibiting
him, first of all, from entering the property (that is The Priory), and secondly from
encouraging (and other similar actions) anyone else to enter The Priory.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 224 of 380
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
Then thirdly (and this is the subparagraph 5(3)(c) that we are really concerned with in
this application) it prohibits him from publishing statements of a number of kinds. These
are (i) that either he or his father's estate (and that is Commander Valentine Webster) had
an interest in the property, (ii) that the permission of the defendant or the estate of his
father was required in order to sell the property, (iii) that the claimants were not the
owners of the property, and (iv) that the claimants could not give instructions for the sale
of the property. Then there was a further injunction against the defendant's interfering
with the marketing or sale of the property, and also against making any entries against
the properties at the Land Registry. However, subparagraph 5(3)(c) was subject to an
exception for certain listed proceedings, and the details of those proceedings were given.
There were five of them in total.
The order then went on by paragraph 6 to deal with the defendant's application to vary
the injunction in claim B30BS107. In paragraph 7, it released the claimants from various
undertakings they had given. By paragraph 8, it was ordered that the defendant pay the
claimants' costs. There were then some provisions which dealt with both claims. There
were payments ordered on account of costs. Permission to appeal was refused to Mr
Webster and an extended civil restraint order was made by the judge against him. That
extended civil restraint order expired in 2017, when I renewed it for a further two years,
but it expired in 2019.
What Mr Webster wishes the court to do is to remove clause 5(3)(c) so that he is now
free to publish statements of the kind which are set out in that part of the order without
being limited to the listed proceedings. He has put forward a number of cases in which
he wishes to make such statements. I will come back to those, but first I must consider
what jurisdiction the court has to vary what was, in my judgment, a final order made by
HHJ McCahill QC in that litigation.
The only rule which is relied on here is that contained in CPR 3.1(7), which reads as
follows:
"A power of the court under these rules to make an order includes a
power to vary or revoke the order."
This is a rule which, on the face of it, looks extremely wide in scope. But it is clear from
the cases which have been built up upon it that that scope is rather more limited than
might first be imagined. I was referred in particular to the Court of Appeal's decision in
Roult v The North West Strategic Health Authority [2010] 1 WLR 487 where Hughes LJ
gave the judgment of the court.
There, in particular at paragraph 15, Hughes LJ said this:
"There is scant authority upon rule 3.1(7) but such as exists is
unanimous in holding that it cannot constitute a power in a judge to
hear an appeal from himself in respect of a final order. Neuberger J
said as much in Customs & Excise Commissioners v Anchor Foods
(No 2) The Times, 28 September 1999. So did Patten J in Lloyds
Investment (Scandinavia) Ltd v Ager-Hanssen [2003] EWHC 1740
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 225 of 380
9.
10.
(Ch). His general approach was approved by this court, in the
context of case management decisions, in Collier v Williams [2006]
1 WLR 1945. I agree that, in its terms, the rule is not expressly
confined to procedural orders. Like Patten J in the Ager-Hanssen
case, I would not attempt any exhaustive classification of the
circumstances in which it may be proper to invoke it. I am, however,
in no doubt that CPR 3.1(7) cannot bear the weight which Mr
Grime's argument seeks to place upon it. If it could, it would come
close to permitting any party to ask any judge to review his own
decision and, in effect, to hear an appeal from himself on the basis
of some subsequent event. It would certainly permit any party to ask
the judge to review his own decision when it is not suggested that he
made any error. It may well be that, in the context of essentially case
management decisions, the grounds for invoking the rule will
generally fall into one or other of the two categories of (i) erroneous
information at the time of the original order or (ii) subsequent event
destroying the basis upon which it was made. The exigencies of case
management may well call for a variation in planning from time to
time in the light of developments. There may possibly be examples
of non-procedural or continuing orders which may call for
revocation or variation as they continue. An interlocutory injunction
may be one. But it does not follow that, wherever one or other of
the two assertions mentioned (erroneous information and subsequent
event) can be made, then any party can return to the trial judge and
ask him to reopen any decision. In particular, it does not follow, I
have no doubt, where the judge's order is a final one disposing of the
case, whether in whole or in part. And it especially does not apply
where the order is founded upon a settlement agreed between the
parties after the most detailed and highly-skilled advice. The
interests of justice and of litigants generally require that a final order
remains such unless proper grounds for appeal exist."
In the present case, of course, this is not a final judgment on the merits. It is a final
judgment given in default of defence. However, that does not matter. I refer to a recent
decision of Zacaroli J in Sangha v Amicus Finance Plc [2020] EWHC 1074 (Ch), where
at paragraph 26 he says:
"The nature of the hearing at which an order is made is not
determinative of the nature of the order made at it. An order may be
final whether it is made on the merits after a trail or in default of
compliance with orders or following summary judgment or strike-
out."
More recent decisions include the Court of Appeal's decision in Terry v BCS Corporate
Acceptances Ltd [2018] EWCA Civ 2422 where Hamblen LJ gave the judgment of the
court. At paragraph 75, Hamblen LJ said this:
"In summary, the circumstances in which CPR 3.1(7) can be relied
upon to vary or revoke an interim order are limited. Normally, it
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 226 of 380
11.
12.
13.
14.
will require a material change of circumstances since the order was
made or the facts on which the original decision was made being
misstated. General considerations such as these will not, however,
justify varying or revoking a final order. The circumstances in
which that will be done are likely to be very rare given the
importance of finality. An example is provided by cases involving
possession orders made when the defendant did not attend the
hearing where CPR 39.3 may be relied upon by analogy
see Hackney London Borough Council v Findlay [2011] EWCA Civ
8, [2011] HLR 15. Another example is the use of powers akin to
CPR 3.1(7) to vary or revoke financial orders made in family
proceedings in relation to which there is a duty of full and frank
disclosure and the court retains jurisdiction - see, for
example, Sharland v Sharland [2015] UKSC 60, [2016] AC
871 and Gohil v Gohil (No 2) [2015] UKSC 61, [2016] AC 849."
In the case of Sangha, to which I have already referred, at paragraph 34 Zacaroli J sets
out that paragraph from Terry and says in paragraph 35:
"Three things are clear from this passage. First, in relation to a final
order, it is not sufficient to show that there was a change in
circumstances or that the facts were misstated at the time of the
original decision. Second, the importance of finality is a critical
consideration in an application to set aside a final order. Third, the
circumstances in which it might be appropriate to set aside a final
order will be very rare."
What appears from the case law is that there is a distinction between the test for setting
aside an interim order and for setting aside a final order which puts an end to the litigation
or to a part of it. So far as interim orders are concerned, it is clear that CPR 3.1(7) can
apply in at least two cases, first where there was erroneous basis for making the decision,
and secondly where there has been a change of circumstances since it was made. In the
other case, the case of the final order, it is clear that the test is stricter, because of the
need for finality in the litigation. I have referred already to the remarks of Hamblen LJ
in the Terry case at paragraph 75. Of course, it is clear that a judgment that has been
obtained by fraud can be attacked subsequently, even if it is a final judgment, and it is
clear that some kinds of possession order at least can be so attacked (for example, where
the defendant was not present at the trial) but it is not clear whether any other kind of
final order can be attacked using this rule.
The history of the dispute and the litigation between the parties here is, unfortunately,
lengthy and very sad because it represents a dispute inside a family. I set out the history
of this litigation in my judgment in the case on the extension of the civil restraint order,
Ashcroft & Penley v Webster [2017] EWHC 887 (Ch). In paragraphs 2 to 6, I set out the
family background and then, in paragraphs 7 to 12, the original claim. I will not repeat
those here. But I will summarise the position very briefly
The claim had been issued by Mr Webster in 2009, his father having died in 2006.
Essentially it said that his grandmother's will did not make proper provision and could
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 227 of 380
15.
16.
17.
18.
be attacked on two grounds. The first was that his father was entitled, as the eldest son,
to inherit the family estate. The second was that he had a claim by way of proprietary
estoppel to the estate. That claim was put forward and taken to trial by Mr Webster. It
was dismissed by HHJ Purle QC on 22 May 2013. Notwithstanding that, there then
followed further litigation, which I summarised in paragraphs 13 to 15 of my judgment,
including (i) a claim being issued by Mr Webster for possession for part of The Priory,
and (ii) a claim (which is the present claim) brought by Mrs Ashcroft and Mr Penley for
in effect slander of title. This was brought on the basis that Mr Webster was making
statements to the effect that Mrs Ashcroft and Mr Penley were not the owners and could
not sell the property, et cetera. There was also a further application by Mr Webster to
vary the injunction in the slander of title claim but I do not need to deal with that.
Then I referred in my judgment to the fact that, at the end of that litigation involving
slander of title and judgment being given in default against Mr Webster and in favour of
Mrs Ashcroft and Mr Penley, the judge made an extended civil restraint order.
Subsequent events were set out in paragraphs 18 to 31 of my judgment, which included
further litigation which Mr Webster had brought against the Ministry of Justice.
What Mr Trevis says on behalf of Mr Webster is that there are a number of further claims
which are not listed among the exceptions to clause 5(3)(c) in the injunction, but in which
Mr Webster would like to make reference to his claims to The Priory. However, he says
that he is not allowed to by the terms of the injunction as it stands. The first one relates
to proceedings brought in relation to a property in Kingsdon, which is some 30 miles
away from Ash Priors where The Priory is. That relates to an estate which was occupied
by Mr Webster's maternal grandparents and which, on the death of his maternal
grandmother, was left by her in her will to her three daughters, including Mr Webster's
mother (one of the three daughters, I think, had predeceased her but it does not matter).
At all events, there is litigation going on between Mr Webster on the one hand and the
trustees of the estate out of which the lease was granted to Mr Webster's maternal
grandparents. In that litigation, Mr Webster makes a number of claims, including one to
enfranchise the lease which had been granted to his maternal grandparents.
Mr Webster wishes to put his case as strongly as possible in that claim and that, he says,
will include referring to the claims to The Priory but he cannot do that by reason, he says,
of clause 5(3)(c). In particular, he would like to say that he was unlawfully evicted from
The Priory. Mr Trevis submitted that it would make his claim in relation to the Kingsdon
matter stronger if he could say just that. Now, says Mr Trevis, The Priory has been sold
and there is no longer any need for the protection of the trustees to continue the injunction
so far as clause 5(3)(c) is concerned. I have to say for myself that I have some doubts as
to whether Mr Webster's case in the Kingsdon proceedings would be actually
strengthened by referring to having been unlawfully evicted as opposed to lawfully
evicted but that, of course, is a matter for Mr Webster and his legal advisors.
There is a second claim, or potential claim, which is the claim which Mr Webster wishes
to bring against the second claimant, Mr Penley, and his former law firm. He also wishes
to make a complaint to the Solicitors Regulation Authority and to the Legal Ombudsman
about the conduct of that law firm. He says he cannot do this and he cannot bring the
professional negligence claim because he is bound by the terms of the injunction. Mr
Trevis points out that the ECRO that was made by HHJ McCahill QC specifically
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 228 of 380
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
excepted a professional negligence claim against Mr Penley's law firm from the scope of
the ECRO but this injunction, however, does not. Mr Trevis says that Mr Webster would
want to refer to the merits of his claim in order to obtain substantial damages.
As it seems to me, the form of the injunction as granted does not seem to prevent any
proceedings of the sort desired by Mr Webster to be brought against Mr Penley's law
firm, nor to prevent a complaint being made to the SRA and the Legal Ombudsman. Mr
Webster is perfectly entitled to issue proceedings saying, "Mr Penley's law firm were
negligent [or gave unsatisfactory service or whatever] in the following respects and, had
it been the case that they had done what they should have done, then I would have won
my case. As it is, I lost it and Mrs Ashcroft and Mr Penley were held to be the owners
of the property." In my view that would not be a breach of the injunction. But the main
problem, it seems to me, with pursuing this claim is that the claim itself for negligence
against the law firm would obviously be out of time. Mr Trevis suggested that time may
run from a later date because of the disclosure of later correspondence. However, no
particular detail of this was given, and I see difficulties in the way of any such contention,
so it seems to me that this claim is likely to fail in any event.
Mr Trevis did say that there is an incongruity between the order of 23 March 2015 and
the ECRO. This is because the latter allows the professional negligence claim to be
brought. I do not see this as incongruous at all. It simply means that any proceedings
brought must respect the terms of the injunction. The claim can make the allegations of
negligence and say, "Mr Penley's firm was negligent in the following respects and that,
had it not been negligent, the result would have been different." What it cannot say is,
"I am the owner of The Priory" or, "I have an interest in The Priory" or anything else
prohibited by the injunction.
Thirdly, there are TLATA claims which Mr Webster wishes to make. It is not clear,
because he has not specified then, which claims he would make, and against whom, and
exactly what these claims would concern. Mr Trevis suggested that they would be
brought by Mr Webster as a trustee of his father's estate and that he would not be
rerunning the proprietary estoppel case that failed before HHJ Purle QC. He suggested
that that claim was different because it was founded on a different claimant, not the
estate, but it seems to me again that any such claim would be out of time and should have
been brought at the time. I cannot see how any such claim at this stage would have any
prospect of success. Nevertheless, that is what Mr Webster would like to do.
Mr Webster also wishes to make complaints to the United Nations and it may be that
claims will eventually be brought pursuant to United Nations conventions in Geneva. I
asked the question in argument whether the injunction would bite on any complaint made
in Geneva and Mr Trevis suggested that, on the face of it, it would because Mr Webster
was resident in England. In any event, as I suggested, it seems to me that the complaint
would be against the UK Government, not against the individuals. It was suggested by
Mr Trevis that the subject matter of the narrative would be a breach of clause 5(3)(c) but
again I am far from satisfied that this is the case.
Lastly, Mr Trevis referred to a claim which had apparently been brought between the
trustees of the Kingdon estate, suggesting there was some kind of dispute between them.
An order was made but I cannot see, if so, how it can have anything to do with
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 229 of 380
24.
25.
Mr Webster. Any such order cannot be binding on Mr Webster as a non-party, and, if
the matter has been concluded, then there is nothing further to go on with and there is no
prospect of Mr Webster being able to intervene in it.
Those are the claims which Mr Webster wishes to make. Mr Trevis on his behalf also
referred to the decision of the Court of Appeal in Tibbles v SIG [2012] EWCA Civ 518,
[2012] 4 All ER 259. That was a case in which the leading judgment was given by Rix
LJ, with whom Etherton LJ agreed. Lewison LJ also agreed but added some further
comments of his own. At paragraph 39(ii), Rix LJ said:
"The cases all warn against an attempt at an exhaustive definition of
the circumstances in which a principled exercise of the discretion
may arise. Subject to that, however, the jurisprudence has laid down
firm guidance as to the primary circumstances in which the
discretion may, as a matter of principle, be appropriately exercised,
namely normally only (a) where there has been a material change of
circumstances since the order was made or (b) where the facts on
which the original decision was made were (innocently or otherwise)
misstated."
At paragraphs 41 and 42, Rix LJ goes on:
"41. Thus it may well be that there is room within CPR 3.1(7) for a
prompt recourse back to a court to deal with a matter which ought to
have been dealt with in an order but which in genuine error was
overlooked (by parties and the court) and which the purposes behind
the overriding objective, above all the interests of justice and the
efficient management of litigation, would favour giving proper
consideration to on the materials already before the court. This
would not be a second consideration of something which had
already been considered once (as would typically arise in a change
of circumstances situation) but would be giving consideration to
something for the first time. On that basis, the power within the rule
would not be invoked in order to give a party a second bite of the
cherry or to avoid the need for an appeal but to deal with something
which, once the question is raised, is more or less obvious on the
materials already before the court.
42. I emphasise, however, the word 'prompt' which I have used
above. The court would be unlikely to be prepared to assist an
applicant once much time had gone by. With the passing of time is
likely to come prejudice for a respondent who is entitled to go
forward in reliance on the order that the court has made. ..."
I do not think I need to read any more of that paragraph.
It is clear to me that that decision of the Court of Appeal contains much useful guidance,
although it has now been to some extent overtaken by the subsequent decision of the
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 230 of 380
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
Court of Appeal in the Terry case. It seems also that what the Lord Justice was really
concerned about there was interim orders than final orders (which, as I say, were the
subject of the Terry case). What Mr Trevis said about that was that this is an injunction
case and that kind of final order operates differently to other final orders. Of course, the
Court of Appeal said in the Terry case, as indeed Rix LJ said in the Tibbles case, that
normally the position was this, thereby accepting that there could be exceptional cases
in which it would be right to exercise the power to revoke the order. In the present case,
said Mr Trevis, circumstances have changed; in particular, very importantly, the house
has been sold. There is no longer any need for the protection of the trustees, said Mr
Trevis, to maintain this order made in the context of a slander of title action. Moreover,
he says, the ECRO that had been made specifically provided for Mr Webster to bring a
professional negligence claim against Mr Penley's firm and he should be allowed to do
that.
Mr Wooding responded. I hope he will forgive me if I do not summarise his submissions
in any great detail. He submitted, however, that it made no difference that the property
had been sold. He said that this was a case of a final order and finality was extremely
important but, even if one was not applying the stricter test for finality on a final order,
it would still have been foreseeable that the property would be sold, yet the injunction
did not provide for it to expire once the property was sold.
Secondly, Mr Wooding said that the injunction did not prevent Mr Webster from putting
forward the various complaints in the proceedings that he wished to; he simply was not
allowed to make certain statements in them. He said that Mr Webster could make the
hypothetical assertion that, had for example Mr Penley's law firm not been (as he says)
negligent, the result of the case would have been different or whatever (and that would
not be a breach of the injunction) and that therefore there was no incongruity between
the ECRO and the injunction.
Then Mr Wooding made a number of comments on the underlying claims. I have already
expressed some views about those underlying claims. As it seems to me, the professional
negligence claim seems to suffer from severe limitation problems. The TLATA claim
similarly would be out of time. The United Nations claim and the action between the
trustees do not seem to me to be of any great importance in the context of this application
to set aside the original order; they are rather more makeweights.
I come back to this: the decision of the judge was made in 2015, The Priory has since
been sold to third parties (I think in October 2015) and other third-party interests may
well have attached in the meantime (that is the charges, leases and so on), so there is no
prospect of rolling back time and awarding Mr Webster any interest in the property. That
has all been decided. Mr Webster has only applied to vary the order in 2020. On no view
could this be called a prompt application in accordance with what Rix LJ said in the
Tibbles case. Mr Wooding also points out that, procedurally, since this was a default
judgment, the obvious or immediate solution for Mr Webster was to apply under CPR
13.3 but Mr Webster did not do that.
In my judgment, what Mr Webster has put forward in this case is not a sufficient basis
for the court exercising the power in CPR 3.1(7) in relation to a final order. Final means
final, if I may use that phrase, because there is a very great public interest in litigation
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 231 of 380
between parties being brought to an end. There is no doubt an equal important public
interest in rooting out fraud and therefore fraud is an obvious case where it may be
possible to make an application under this rule. But, for cases short of that, other than
for example the kind of possession case which was referred to by Hamblen LJ in the
Terry case, it seems to me that there is no proper justification shown in this case and, in
any event, the application has not been brought promptly. Accordingly, I dismiss this
application.
(After further submissions)
31.
Mr Wooding asks me to record that the application which I have just dismissed was one
totally without merit. This means in effect that the application was bound to fail. I think,
in the light of the authorities distinguishing between final and interim orders and also the
requirement that applications be brought promptly, the application was indeed bound to
fail because it has been brought so long after the order has been made and it concerns a
final order, so I think there never was a prospect of the application succeeding.
Accordingly, I will record that it was totally without merit.
(After further submissions)
32. The total costs claimed in this case amount to £9,672 for the solicitors and £750 for
counsel. With VAT, that makes a grand total of £12,506.40. This is for an application
which was originally estimated for an hour and has now lasted about two and a quarter.
The application was for an order made some five years ago to be modified and a bundle
of documents was prepared by the applicant, some of which at least was new. It is
apparent that this is not a completely simple, straightforward case and therefore some
work would have to be done on the part of the recipients of the application in order to
respond appropriately to it.
33.
34.
The point is made that I have recorded the application as totally without merit and it can
fairly be said, "If it was totally without merit, why did it take so long to respond to?" An
answer to that in this case is that, if an application is totally without merit, it is all the
more difficult to deal with because it does not proceed along well-known pathways; it
jumps around from one point to another and jumps from one document to another and it
is not put in the usual legal way. I think the reference to "totally without merit" is a bit
of a double-edged sword, if I may put it in that way.
On the other hand, it does seem to me that overall £10,000 plus VAT is a lot to spend on
an application which, as I say, was estimated for one hour and has lasted a bit more than
two. When I look at the actual numbers that are given, I can see that there perhaps has
not been as much delegation from a Grade A fee earner downwards as I should have
liked. For example, in relation to attendances on the second claimant, letters out include
3 hours by the Grade A fee earner and 1.7 hours by two Grade D fee earners. Telephone
calls include 1.1 hours by the Grade A fee earner and 0.1 hours by the Grade D fee earner.
Similarly, the attendances on opponents, letters out include 0.7 hours for the Grade A
fee earner and 0.2 hours for the Grade D fee earner. Personal attendances on others
include 1 hour for the Grade A and 1.3 hours for the Grade D. Letters out include 7
hours for the Grade A and 10.6 hours for the Grade D. Telephone calls include 1.9 hours
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 232 of 380
35.
for the Grade A and 1.9 hours for the Grade D. This is not, as I would see it, sufficient
delegation.
Secondly, there seem to have been a very remarkable number of attendances on others.
I have already mentioned the figures for personal attendances, letters out and telephone,
17.6 hours spent on letters out and 3.8 hours spent on the telephone. As Mr Wooding
rightly points out, this is a case where there has had to be liaison between the two
claimants (one of whom is represented and whose summary statement of costs this is,
the other of whom is not) and therefore one must expect that the normal figures would
be to some extent inflated, but this seems to me to go way beyond what I would expect.
36. Thirdly, in relation to the documents which have been worked on, again we see that there
is significant input, though here the delegation is better, from the Grade A fee earner.
There is a huge amount of time spent on the instructions to counsel, a total of some 8.4
hours. I must say that I think that is excessive.
37. Taking all these matters overall, I think that the solicitors' costs are way too high. I do
not quarrel with the hourly rates claimed but I do say that the time spent was excessive.
I think the fairest thing I can do is to reduce the figure of £9,672 down to £6,000 and
then add the fees for counsel on top, which were £750, so that is £6,750 plus VAT at 20
per cent. That will be the summary assessment.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 233 of 380
Epiq Europe Ltd hereby certify that the above is an accurate and complete record of the
proceedings or part thereof.
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
This transcript has been approved by the Judge
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 234 of 380
General Form of Judgment or Order
In the County Court at
Yeovil
Claim Number
Date
F00YE161
1 February 2021
THE
COUNTY
MR BRUCE KERSTIN WEIR TRUSTEE OF J S NEAL DECEASED TRUST
1st Claimant
Ref SEW/DL/
EP/90578/042
MS LESLEY JOAN GASKELL TRUSTEE OF J S NEAL DECEASED TRUST 2nd Claimant
PERSONS UNKNOWN
Ref
1st Defendant
Ref
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
2nd Defendant
Ref
COURT
Before His Honour Judge Paul Matthews sitting at the County Court at Bristol, Bristol Civil Justice Centre,
Number 2, Redcliff Street, Bristol, BS1 6GR.
Weir and Gaskell v Webster, Bristol Appeal no 10BS005C (original claim F00YE161)
ORDER:
UPON the appellant' application for permission to appeal by appellant's notice dated 5 February 2020 ("the
Notice")
AND UPON reading the Notice, the Grounds of Appeal and the skeleton argument (and attached documents)
filed in support, and the transcript of the judgment in the court below
IT IS ORDERED THAT:
1. The application be refused, as totally without merit;
2. The appellant may not request that the application be renewed at an oral hearing.
REASONS:
1. By appellant's notice dated 5 February 2020, the appellant Mr Webster seeks to appeal against the order of
District Judge Walsh given in the County Court at Yeovil on 24 January 2020 that he give up possession of
the property known as Bondip Farmhouse, Kingsdon, Somerton by 4 PM on 13 February 2020. There appear to
have been issues with obtaining a transcript of the ex tempore judgment in the court below, which is why this
application is only now being decided. The transcript runs to just over 12 A4 pages of typescript.
2. The claim for possession was commenced by claim form issued on 11 June 2019 by the respondents, the
registered proprietors of the fee simple estate in the property, in their capacity as trustees of the JS Neal Deceased
Trust. The respondents applied by notice dated 26 September 2019 for an order striking out Mr Webster's defence
The court office at the County Court at Yeovil, The Law Courts, Petters Way, Yeovil, Somerset, BA20 1SW. When corresponding with the court, please address forms
or letters to the Court Manager and quote the claim number. Tel: 01935 382150 Fax: 0870 3240162. Check if you can issue your claim online. It will save you time
and money. Go to www.moneyclaim.gov.uk to find out more.
N24 General Form of Judgment or Order
Produced Bages23530
CJR065C
Porter Dodson Llp
The Quad
Blackbrook Park Avenue
Taunton
Somerset
TA1 2PX
97176 TAUNTON (BLACKBROOK)
Page 236 of 380
and granting possession forthwith, on the basis that the defence disclosed no reasonable grounds for defending
the claim.
3. The order under appeal was made following a judgment given at the end of a second hearing of this application,
lasting half a day. The first hearing was on 10 October 2019, but was adjourned to the second by the judge in
order to allow the appellant time to adduce any evidence he wished in respect of the respondents' assertion that
the lease had been surrendered on 31 July 2018. Both sides were represented by counsel, and the matter was fully
argued, including full skeleton arguments.
4. A number of basic facts are not disputed. On 6 March 1995 Prudence Neil granted a lease of the property at an
annual rent of £5200 (subject to review) to Edward and Patricia Marrow for 35 years from 29 September 1994.
The lease contained a provision that the landlord should be entitled to give one month's written notice to terminate
the lease after the death of the survivor of Mr and Mrs Marrow.
5. Mr Marrow died in 1997 and the lease accordingly vested in his widow Patricia by survivorship. She eventually
suffered from Alzheimer's disease, and died on 25 December 2017. She had been cared for at the property for
some years before her death by her daughter Jennifer St John Webster (the mother of the appellant, and since 2006
a widow herself). For convenience, but without intending any disrespect, I shall refer to her hereafter as “Jennifer”.
6. By her will dated 18 October 2006 the testatrix appointed her three daughters Jennifer, Miranda Maby and
Priscilla Keyser as her executrices, and gave the residue of her estate (which would include the lease of the
property) to her three daughters equally (but with a substitutionary gift in favour of the children of a predeceasing
in child). It appears that Miranda predeceased the testatrix. At that time, no grant of probate had so far been taken
out. I do not know if the position has changed since, but for present purposes it does not matter.
7. On 1 April 2018, the respondents' solicitors, acting on their behalf, gave to Jennifer and the appellant a written
notice to quit and deliver up possession of the property “on the day on which a complete period of your tenancy
expires next after the end of four weeks from the service of this notice”. Whether that form of notice (suitable for
a periodic tenancy) was apt to determine the lease granted in 1995 is not the issue which arises here, but it is part
of the context in which further events occurred, as set out below.
8. On 3 July 2018 Jennifer sent an email to the respondents' agents telling them that she would be moving out of
the property at the end of July, to go and live permanently with her daughter in Bath, and that her sister Priscilla
would be coming down from Scotland to help her move out. The email also pointed out that the appellant (who
stayed there from time to time) had been told to move his things out of the property by the same date. On 31 July
2018 Jennifer handed over the keys to the property to the respondents' agents and signed their final inspection
form confirming that she had given them all the keys to the property.
9. The appellant however declined to vacate the property. On 10 August 2018, the respondents issued a claim for
possession against “persons unknown,” using forms N5 (claim form) and N121 (particulars of claim), under claim
number E00YE247. The appellant made a witness statement dated 19 August 2018, as he put it, to “supplement
and explain the Defence Form and a counter claim”.
10. On 29 August 2018 the appellant served notice on the respondents claiming to enfranchise the property under
the Leasehold Reform Act 1967. That notice stated that he was the tenant. However, in his defence in the present
proceedings, the appellant claimed to have served the notice “acting on behalf of and with the authority of the
executors".
11. By 27 December 2018, the possession claim had been amended to show the appellant as first defendant and
Jennifer as second defendant. On that date, however, the claim was “adjourned generally with liberty to either
party to apply to restore” by Deputy District Judge Collins. The order recited the parties' agreement to adjourn
"to allow the Defendants the opportunity to investigate and apply for the enfranchisement of the Property”.
12. However, the order went on to provide that, if no application to restore had been made by 6 June 2019, the
claim should stand automatically dismissed without further order. Since no application to restore was made by
that date, the claim was indeed dismissed.
13. In the interim, on 23 April 2019, further notices to quit were sent by post behalf of the respondents. These
were expressly stated to be given pursuant to the provision in the lease for giving notice after the death of the
survivor of the original tenants, and to expire on 1 June 2019.
14. A second claim for possession was issued a few days later, on 11 June 2019, under number F00YE161. This
is the present claim, out of which this appeal arises. This claim also was originally brought against “persons
Page 237 of 380
