5.
6.
Judge Purle issued his judgment in which he dismissed and rejected the claim for a
proprietary estoppel in no uncertain terms. What the defendants say today is that the
amended particulars of claim are merely bringing up issues which have already been dealt
with by His Honour Judge Purle. The real basis on which the claimant seeks to set out a
legal right to occupy other than as a bare licensee are set out in paragraph seven of the
amended particulars of claim. That paragraph is answered in the amended defence in
considerable detail at paragraphs 13 through to 25 and Mr Wooding has taken me through
those paragraphs in detail.
Mr Trevis has addressed me on that issue and I am satisfied that what the claimant is
seeking to do by raising these issues in paragraph seven of the amended particulars of claim
is to re-visit issues which have already been dealt with by Judge Purle in the 2013 case and
which had been clearly decided against him. I am satisfied that he does not have any
authority to occupy the property through his mother Jennifer St John Webster and indeed
Jennifer St John Webster has filed a statement with the Court dated 4 December 2014 in
which she clearly states that she and her husband had no tenancy of any part of the house or
any other enforceable legal right to live in it and her living in the house was a family
arrangement only. She has now vacated the house.
I am satisfied that the claimant has no rights to occupy pursuant to the estate of his father
Valentine St John Webster. He may have an interest under the estate but that does not give
him the right to occupy. Likewise being a member of the class of beneficiaries under that
discretionary trust does not give him a right to occupy and equally I am satisfied that he
does not have any right to occupy the property by virtue of the will of Valerie St John
Webster whether as an executor (which he is not) or a beneficiary. Then at paragraph 7(5)
he suggests that he has a proprietary interest in the property relying on assurances made to
him. The amended defence deals with that at length at paragraph 24 and I am satisfied
3
Page 46 of 380
7.
having read that, that all that the claimant is seeking to do here is to raise issues which, if he
did not raise before Judge Purle, and I am not sure that he did not, he certainly ought to
have raised at that time and it is an abuse of the process of this Court for those matters to be
raised at this stage.
For those reasons I am satisfied that the whole of paragraph seven of the amended
particulars of claim have no substance, they show no cause of action that should be tried by
this Court and should be struck out. What does concern me is that clearly in August 2014
the claimant was living at the property. That is evidenced by a letter written by the first
defendant Mr Penley to the claimant dated 15 August giving him permission to remain
living at the property. I am then told that that licence was terminated by an email dated
10 September. Thereafter the locks at the property were changed and the claimant was
excluded from occupation of the property. It seems to me that the claimant does have a
claim for wrongful eviction from the property based on those facts and he has pleaded that
at paragraph nine of the particulars of claim. Therefore what I am going to do is to strike
out the amended particulars of claim and give directions for the trial of the claimant's claim
that he is entitled to be put back into possession as a bare licensee on the basis that he has
been wrongfully evicted.
8.
The order I will make therefore is:
9.
Mr Trevis, do you want to re-plead paragraph nine or just leave it as paragraph nine?
MR TREVIS: Sir, will you just give me two minutes? Sir, would it be possible to re-plead if so
advised? I'm not sure what the claimant wants to do at this stage, but he'd like to sort of
keep his powder dry for the appropriate period.
MR WOODING: A decision needs to be made.
JUDGE ORME: Yes, I think it does, yes.
MR WOODING: [Inaudible] third time.
4
Page 47 of 380
JUDGE ORME: Let me just go through the amended particulars of claim. Paragraph one, that is in
substitution, so that can stay in. Paragraph two-
MR WOODING: That is now not... what can only be material to his claim in the way in which
you've identified it, sir, is simply to say he was in occupation of the property at a time when
he then came back and no longer had access to it. That is what the dispute, the rest of this-
JUDGE ORME: Right, I think paragraphs one and two can stay in. Paragraphs three and four come
out. Paragraphs five and six can stay in. Paragraph seven comes out, paragraph eight
comes out. Nine, ten, 11, 12 and 13 can stay in.
MR TREVIS: Sir, shall we, as far as paragraph eight is concerned, 8(1) ought to remain in.
MR WOODING: Well, I'm not sure that's correct because the argument, well, the basis of the
claim was not that he was occupying it as a licensee. It's that he was in occupation.
JUDGE ORME: Yes. It seems to me that is right. So-
MR WOODING: Which is why I'd also ask you to re-visit paragraph two in the amended
particulars because that claims he's there as a tenant or as licensee. He's not there as a
tenant and the claim, as you've found it, if it arises under Section 13(7) doesn't arise from
him being there as licensee. It's simply a question of whether he was in occupation at the
time.
JUDGE ORME: Well, he will have to produce the evidence that he was the occupier, either as
tenant or licensee, that is what he is saying. So paragraphs-
MR WOODING: Well, no, forgive me, sir. At no point in your judgment have you accepted an
argument from my learned friend that he was there as a tenant. None at all.
MR TREVIS: I'm not putting forward that. I think licensee is the highest I can put the argument.
If it assists, two be tweaked and either as tenant or can be deleted.
JUDGE ORME: Yes.
(1) Paragraphs three, four, seven and eight of the amended particulars of claim are
5
Page 48 of 380
10.
struck out as showing no cause of action and/or as an abuse of the process. Pursuant
to CPR 3.4(vi) the Court orders that those parts of the statement of case are totally
without merit.
(2) Paragraph two of the amended particulars of claim are amended by deleting the
words, 'either as a tenant or...'
(3) The claim be transferred to the County Court sitting at Bristol to be listed before
HHJ McCahill QC on 23 March 2015 at 11 am to be heard with claim number
B30BS071 for further directions to be given.'
What we are now left with is amended particulars of claim claiming possession based just
on being a pure licensee and him being wrongfully evicted. So do you want to amend your
defence to that one, or are you happy to rely on your defence?
MR WOODING: I'm happy to rely on the defence as it stands because it's been pleaded trying to
cover every, every possible ground. Perhaps if I could have seven days if so advised to
amend, if necessary? But-
JUDGE ORME:
11.
'(3) The-
MR TREVIS: Sir, there's absolutely no reason for that at all, because just the facets of the
particulars of claim, it's not as if the claimant is amending the particulars of claim, yet
further amending. There's no reason why the defendant should be able to have that
opportunity to consider putting in yet further documents. What concerns me is the amount
of money that's being racked up by the defendants here and, sir, I'm extremely concerned-
JUDGE ORME: Who brought this claim, Mr Trevis?
MR TREVIS: Well, this is true, but it's really not appropriate for, and actually the Court of Appeal
recently in the Altomart case has commented on parties really trying to squeeze every pound
they possibly can out of this litigation, and this-
JUDGE ORME: I am fully aware of it, Mr Trevis.
MR TREVIS: So to that extent I do not see why the defendants need-
JUDGE ORME: Your client has produced a huge bundle.
6
Page 49 of 380
MR TREVIS: Yes.
JUDGE ORME: I have not even looked at it. Totally without merit.
MR TREVIS: Yes.
JUDGE ORME: Alright? His case I have found to be totally without merit, except for one small
part which is he was a bare licensee. Has he been evicted without due process of law? That
is the question for the Court, that is what is going to be decided.
MR TREVIS: Well, sir, the point here though is why the defendants would need to amend their
defence. Because my learned friend has already stated that-
JUDGE ORME: That is alright, I will not give permission for that. If you need to apply you will
have to apply. So we need-
MR WOODING: Directions.
JUDGE ORME: Directions. Disclosure of documents.
MR WOODING: Forgive me. In terms of directions can I ask that the only direction you make at
this stage is to transfer this matter and consolidate it with one if not two of the claims that
are in the Bristol District Registry before His Honour Judge McCahill which touch on this
same dispute? My learned friend, whether it's by you or my learned friend raised the issue
of the trustees having done nothing, but of course we have. There is a claim on foot there.
That is back before His Honour Judge McCahill a week Monday, on the 23rd. It's currently
listed for three hours because Mr Webster has made additional applications there. Plainly it
would be convenient to have these proceedings all at one point, and at that point and then if
it needs to be re-transferred back down here with suitable directions, it can be done so.
JUDGE ORME: Mr Trevis?
MR TREVIS: Absolutely not, sir. Again, it comes down to the way that the defendants have been
conducting this litigation. The claimant issues a claim where the trustees ought to have
been issuing possession proceedings and then having been unsuccessful with that striking-
7
Page 50 of 380
out claim back in November they issued proceedings before a different court or a different
judge, and all that the defendants are trying to do is to sort of steal a march on the claimant.
If the claimant's case is so wholly without merit as has been described as the court, then
what's the harm in the matter staying in the court where it was commenced?
MR WOODING: If I can just reply? There was no judge in Taunton who had the jurisdiction to
make the injunction which was sought and made by His Honour Judge Purle. It is a matter,
this matter clearly needs directions. There are, before the Court, one set of proceedings in
Bristol brought by these defendants and claimant, another set of proceedings brought by
Mr Webster as claimant with these defendants as defendants.
There are these set of
proceedings. They all touch upon what appears to be the same issue, this is-
JUDGE ORME: And there are three claims in the High Court in London, are they not?
MR WOODING: They are, although the distinction there is that they are brought against the
defendant personally, Mr Penley alone.
JUDGE ORME: Ah.
MR WOODING: So there is not that overlap of parties. Here there three claims with an overlap of
parties, overlap of issues. For the purposes of simple directions, it's plainly, in accordance
with the overriding objective that this matter be consolidated to those matters and His
Honour Judge McCahill can make such directions as he thinks necessary, which well may
be that this comes back down, is transferred back down to the County Court to be heard at
Taunton. I can well envisage that that is an order that should be made. But given that that
hearing has already been listed by His Honour Judge McCahill, and that he was aware of
these Taunton proceedings and indeed that was primarily the purpose of him having another
hearing, it seems to me sensible that this be transferred for his consideration.
JUDGE ORME: What is the basic claim in the Bristol proceedings brought by the trustees?
MR WOODING: By the trustees, it's a claim for trespass and slander of title.
8
Page 51 of 380
JUDGE ORME: Trespass of the property?
MR WOODING: Of the property.
JUDGE ORME: In which case I think it is absolutely right that they should be dealt with together.
MR TREVIS: Well, sir, actually if one is to address the question of the overriding interest,
particularly in relation to the issue of saving costs, it seems to me that any further hearing
before His Honour Judge McCahill is, has been made sort of otiose by this hearing. All that
needs to be adjudicated upon is the-
JUDGE ORME: In which case no doubt he will send them back down here.
MR TREVIS: But that is unnecessary additional expense.
JUDGE ORME: No, it is not. Right.
'The claim be transferred to the High Court of Justice...' Actually I do not need to transfer
it to the High Court of Justice, do I? Just transfer it to the County Court at Bristol?
MR WOODING: Yes, you could, and then if it's consolidated with-
JUDGE ORME: Well, no, I will leave consolidation to Judge McCahill-
MR WOODING: To be listed.
JUDGE ORME:
12. ‘The claim be transferred to the County Court sitting at Bristol to be listed before His
Honour Judge McCahill QC on 23 March 2015.'
Is it 2.30pm?
MR WOODING: It's most recently changed to-
MR TREVIS: 11am.
MR WOODING: 11am, yes.
JUDGE ORME:
13.
‘At 11 am to be heard with claim number B30BS071 for further directions to be given.'
Alright?
9
Page 52 of 380
MR WOODING: Sir, that leaves the matter of costs.
JUDGE ORME: Yes.
MR WOODING: In my submission the proper order is that the defendants have their costs up to
and including today in any event. The reality is we've had to go through two sets of
pleadings, two hearings to get to a position where you've been able to identify what case the
claimant is bringing. All that expense on the defendant's side which is required in order to
establish to your satisfaction as there has been, so the vast majority of the claim should be
struck out, has all been necessitated by the claimant's actions. Up until, up to and including
today, those costs should be the defendants in any event.
If what had happened is that the claim had been pleaded, as has now been sorted, to its very
start it would be a different matter, but it's not and the defendants have been put to this
expense and should be entitled to their costs from the claimant.
JUDGE ORME: And do you rely on the costs statement-
MR WOODING: Yes.
JUDGE ORME: -dated 5 March?
MR WOODING: Indeed.
JUDGE ORME: 6 March.
MR WOODING: 6 March.
JUDGE ORME: Mr Trevis?
MR TREVIS: Well, sir, the claimant hasn't finished yet and if the costs are to be determined at this
stage one has to, to use my learned friend's words here, without a fillet-out the work that's
been done in relation to the issue of the licence and so on and so forth. It's far better to
address the question of costs at the conclusion of the case. The, the problem is, I mean, I've
haven't been given a costs schedule, I haven't seen a costs schedule yet. So the, but in any
event it seems to me that the claim for all of the costs to date is a claim that of itself cannot
10
Page 53 of 380
succeed. It can't be right that if this matter is to go off for a trial albeit on a facet of the
case, that the defendants are given all of their costs to date. That seems to me-
JUDGE ORME: Well, Mr Wooding, this costs schedule is all of the costs to date-
MR WOODING: It is. I know-
JUDGE ORME: -is it?
MR WOODING: -I accept in principle the basis upon which I'd ask you to make the order. It's
simply the costs which have effectively been wasted in us having to deal with the aspects
which are not now-
JUDGE ORME: I think the appropriate order is for the costs of today to be the defendant's costs.
MR WOODING: I would also ask for the costs of the defence, the amended defence because it's
that document that you relied upon to come to your conclusion that the vast majority needs
to be struck out. It's a, it is I appreciate a reasonably long document, but it had to be in the
circumstances. The background to this is complex. It had to be before the Court. The only
reason why that had to be pleaded was because of paragraph seven. In my submission it's
entirely appropriate that the costs encompass that as well.
We are now, only after having dealt with this work have we found that what the nature of
the claimant's case is.
JUDGE ORME: Mr Trevis?
MR TREVIS: Well, sir, that might be a reasonable submission had the claim been struck out in its
entirety. It hasn't and again the Court, what my learned friend is inviting the Court to do is
again conduct a filleting exercise. Have a bit of, I want all the defence here, I want the costs
of this hearing of theirs.
JUDGE ORME:
14.
‘(4) The claimant do pay the defendant's costs of the amended defence and the hearing
today.'
11
Page 54 of 380
Right. Anything else?
MR WOODING: No. I'm grateful. Thanks.
MR
End of Judgment
12
Page 55 of 380
