9.
10.
11.
register entry in the Register of Land Charges and it was a register entry
under Class C (iii) identifying the type of land charge in question.
The master's order then dealt with the question of costs. In the appellant's notice the
appeal relates to paragraph 3 of that order dealing with the Class C (iii) land charge or
land charges. The appellant's notice identifies the order which is sought in place of the
order made and certainly what is sought is an order changing the order for costs and it
may be I should proceed on the basis that the order which is sought is also an order
cancelling the vacation of the land charge in Class C (iii).
I have been provided with a transcript of the judgment given by
Deputy Master Matthews on 4 August 2014. He describes the application made to him.
He refers to an earlier decision made in earlier litigation by
His Honour Judge Purle QC. He refers to the registration of the pending land actions.
He then refers to submissions made by Mr Webster on the basis that the register entries
as to the pending land actions could be removed, but ought to be replaced by something
else. He then refers to what he describes as the two more recent charges which are the
Class C (iii) charges. The Deputy Master then referred to the Land Charges Act 1972.
He said at paragraph 8 of his judgment:
"It is clear beyond any doubt that this kind of charge which is
claimed in the application of the registration of the land charge is
not a Class C (iii) land charge. It therefore falls at the first hurdle
that what is being claimed cannot be such a charge."
The master then said there are also other difficulties with the description of the charge
and he concludes that the claim to a land charge of Class C (iii) must fail and it is a
plain case for vacating the charge. He then added further reasons which I do not think I
need to read out, and the result was that he vacated all of the entries including the so-
called Class C (iii) land charges.
12. Mr Webster has drafted grounds of appeal in support of his appeal against the master's
order in relation to the Class C (iii) land charges. The first thing he says is that
Mr Webster and family members remained in the property in question, the Priory, after
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 268 of 380
the order was made by the deputy master. That is a matter that Mr Webster has told me
more about at the hearing today. He has given me material about how he was treated
after the order of 4 August 2014 and he told me that he left the Priory on
28 January 2015. If Mr Webster has a complaint about his treatment in relation to the
Priory, that complaint has crystallised as at 28 January 2015.
13. The grounds of appeal continue, referring to other matters. Mr Webster asserts that the
most appropriate land charge was genuinely thought to be a Class C (iii) land charge.
He goes on to say in a submission, that apparently was not considered by the deputy
master in 2014, that there are other reasons justifying the use of a Class C (iii) land
charge. One of those reasons relates to the United Nations Declaration on the Rights of
Peasants and Other People Working in Rural Areas and on draft particulars of claim in
professional negligence proceedings against Mr Penley and/or his firm.
14.
15.
The next paragraph of the grounds of appeal relates to an application made for first
registration, which I take it is an application in relation to the same property referred to
above, and it is said that statements made in the application for first registration were
erroneous and indeed untrue and, it seems, known to be untrue. The matter complained
of appears to date from July or August 2014. The next ground of appeal builds upon
the same matter. Paragraph 6 of the grounds of appeal refers to the event about which I
was told, which was that on 29 January 2015 Mr Webster was removed from his home,
and that amounted to unlawful behaviour in a number of respects, in particular
unlawful under the Trusts of Land and Appointment of Trustees Act 1996. At the
hearing today Mr Webster has explained that reference by referring in particular to
section 13(7) of the 1996 Act.
The grounds of appeal continue by referring to further court processes and civil
restraint orders. Paragraph 8 of the grounds of appeal turns to another matter. The
ground refers to an application being made for a licence to exhume the respondent's
father's remains which were interred at the property. Then Mr Webster, in his grounds
of appeal, comes back to the question of the land charges. He says that if Class (iii)
land charges were not an appropriate title land charge, then a Class F land charge
would have been an appropriate type of land charge and therefore the master should
have allowed the appropriate charge, being either a Class C (iii) or a Class F. I think
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 269 of 380
16.
17.
that ground of appeal means that even if the master was right about Class C (iii), he
ought to have permitted the registration of a Class F land charge. There is no
suggestion that the master was asked to do that, or that Mr Webster ever himself took
the initiative of applying to register a Class F land charge and that would not appear to
be a valid challenge to what the master did, or his reasons for doing it.
Then, finally, in his grounds of appeal, Mr Webster relies on section 7(1)(a) of the
Human Rights Act 1998. He says he is exercising his rights under that Act by bringing
this appeal. He relies on Article 5, Article 8 and Article 1 of the First Protocol. He
also relies on the Convention of Rights of Persons with Disabilities and the Optional
Protocol signed by the United Kingdom. He refers to a number of family members
who he says had relevant disabilities.
Having read the grounds of appeal, I am not able to see in those grounds of appeal any
arguable case for challenging the master's decision that the applicant for the land
charges did not have a valid case to register a charge under Class C (iii). I have other
material which helps me understand what Mr Webster referred to in section 11 of his
appellant's notice. It will be remembered that he referred to other civil proceedings and
civil restraint orders.
18.
I have been provided with a judgment delivered on 21 April 2017 by Judge Matthews
sitting in the High Court at Bristol. That judgement sets out some relevant background
matters. The application before Judge Matthews on that occasion was an application
by Mrs Ashcroft and Mr Penley to extend an earlier civil restraint order.
Judge Matthews did extend the civil restraint order so that it continued until
22 March 2019 and then it lapsed. It is not necessary for the purpose of today's
judgment to go through the many detailed matters referred to by Judge Matthews in his
judgment, but given that section 11 of the appellant's notice before me refers to this
history, I have had regard to what Judge Matthews found.
19. Judge Matthews refers to the proceedings which came before His Honour Judge Purle,
which were dismissed on 22 May 2013. Judge Matthews also refers to various other
claims made by Mr Webster and he refers to the order made by Judge McCahill on
23 March 2015. It was on that occasion that Judge McCahill made an extended civil
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 270 of 380
restraint order against Mr Webster. Judge Matthews then refers to steps that were
taken by Mr Webster after the extended civil restraint order. There were claims against
the Lord Chancellor or the Ministry of Justice. Those claims were not permitted to
continue. Judge Matthews then dealt with the law as to extended civil restraint orders.
He dealt with the submissions made to him. He concluded as follows, and I will read
paragraphs 52 and 53 of the judgment he gave in these terms.
52: "In my judgment the defendant's behaviour since the extended
civil restraint order of March 2015 in the light of everything that
has gone before, shows that there remains a clear and serious risk
to the claimants to third parties such as the new owners of the
property and importantly to the administration of public justice,
which is simply too great to allow the first extended civil restraint
order not to be continued.
20.
53: "I have considered whether it would be safe to extend the
extended civil restraint order for a short period, for example six
months or even one year so that the restraint can be limited in time
as far as possible. I have concluded however that that would not be
enough. We are now nearly four years on from the original
decision of His Honour Judge Purle QC and, as I say, the defendant
still wants to overturn it, if he can. I see no sign of six months or a
year's further lapse of time would cause the risk of vexatious
behaviour on his part to diminish sufficiently."
That was said on 21 April 2017. The extended civil restraint order as extended expired
on 22 March 2019. I am not aware of further litigation breaking out immediately after
22 March 2019, but Mr Webster has now started further applications. I am aware of
three in particular. The first seems to be the present appeal before me which was filed
on 4 August 2014. There was then an application dated 4 August 2020. There was
then an application dated 12 October 2020 to vary the order of Judge McCahill, which
Judge Matthews dismissed on 22 January 2021. There was also a further application
which was dealt with by Judge Matthews sitting in the County Court at Yeovil on
12 January 2021. That appears to have been an application for permission to appeal
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 271 of 380
21.
22.
against an order given by District Judge Walsh in the County Court at Yeovil on
24 January 2020. The appellant's notice was 5 February 2020. So, in the last year
Mr Webster has begun to bring further matters to the attention of the court.
That recital of the history allows me to come to the point which is before me, which is
the application by Mr Webster for an extension of time to file the appellant's notice
against the order of 4 August 2014. The legal principles I should apply to that
application are now established. They are summarised in the White Book at note
52.15(4) under the heading 'variation of period for filling appeal notice'. I will not read
out the entirety of that note, but I will summarise it by saying that the approach I
should adopt on an application of this kind is essentially the same approach as a court
will adopt when it is asked to give relief from sanctions. The note in the White Book
explains why the application is not formally an application for relief from sanctions,
but raises the same considerations as such an application.
It is now established that such an application is to be dealt with in accordance with the
legal principles laid down by the Court of Appeal in Denton v TH White Limited [2014]
1 WLR 3296. The White Book at paragraph 3.93 summarises those principles in these
terms, and I will read the note as follows:
"The guidance given in Denton may be summarised as follows. A
judge should address an application for relief from sanctions in
three stages. The first stage is to identify and assess the
seriousness and significance of the failure to comply with any rule,
practice direction or court order which engages rule 3.9(1). If the
breach is neither serious nor significant, the court is unlikely to
need to spend much time on the second and third stages.
"The second stage is to consider why the fault occurred. The third
stage is to evaluate all the circumstances of the case so as to enable
the court to deal justly with the application including 3.9(1)(a)(b).
The court also gave guidance as to the importance of penalising
parties who unreasonably oppose applications for relief from
sanctions."
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 272 of 380
23.
24.
I will apply those principles to this case. The first question is whether the period of
delay between 4 August 2014 and 5 August 2020 should be considered to be serious
and significant. The relevant time limit for an appeal was 21 days. It seems to me
clear and straightforward that taking six years and one day to serve an appellant's
notice involves serious and significant delay. The time limit of 21 days for appeal is an
important time limit and it serves a purpose. The purpose is to bring to the
respondent's attention that prima facie the matter is final and concluded 21 days after
the relevant order. In this case, 5 years 11 months and more went by without a
challenge being brought to the order of 4 August 2014.
The next matter is whether there is an explanation for that period of delay. I have
referred to section 11 of the appellant's notice. I have filled in some of the background
detail to allow one to understand what section 11 is dealing with. I can find nowhere,
in any of that material, any proper explanation for the fact that Mr Webster did not seek
to challenge the order of 4 August 2014 within the 21 days or thereabouts following
that order.
25.
In his submissions to me today, Mr Webster explained that he did not need to challenge
the order in 2014. He did not expect to happen what subsequently happened and
therefore he can be forgiven for not challenging the order within the 21-day period.
There are different ways of interpreting that comment by Mr Webster. One is to
understand that he was prepared to leave matters where they were following the order
of 4 August 2014, and therefore he made a decision not to appeal. That is a reason for
not granting an extension of time six years later rather than the reverse. However, even
if Mr Webster had certain expectations in August 2014 which were cruelly dashed at a
later time, that time was January 2015, which was well over five years before the
present appeal, so that any reasoning based on that consideration does not assist
Mr Webster.
26.
The result is that there is no good explanation of any kind for the delay in this case.
Given how long the delay was and the absence of any good explanation, those matters
are very powerful pointers to a court concluding that the right and just order is to leave
matters where they were in August 2014 and not permit the matter to be reopened six
years later. The cases cited in the White Book at note 52.15(4) which I have read
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 273 of 380
27.
indicate that in some cases, if the court is able to form a view, the court can take into
account the underlying merits of the proposed appeal. I have commented on the
grounds of appeal. My assessment is that this is a plain case where the intended appeal
has no merit. It is a case where one would unhesitatingly refuse permission to appeal
on the ground that there is no real prospect of success.
In those circumstances there can be only one answer to this application for an extension
of time, and that is that I will refuse to extend the time for appeal. I will also refuse
permission to appeal so that it is clear that if this appeal had been made in time, it
would not be given permission to appeal.
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 274 of 380
Epiq Europe Ltd hereby certify that the above is an accurate and complete record of the
proceedings or part thereof.
Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
Email: civil@epiqglobal.co.uk
This transcript has been approved by the Judge
Epiq Europe Ltd, Unit 1 Blenheim Court, Beaufort Business Park, Bristol BS32 4NE
www.epiqglobal.com/en-gb/
Page 275 of 380
