European Court of Human Rights - Application form
Subject matter of the application
4/11
All the information concerning the facts, complaints and compliance with the requirements of exhaustion of domestic remedies and
the six-month time-limit laid down in Article 35 § 1 of the Convention must be set out in this part of the application form (sections
E., F. and G.) (Rule 47 § 2 (a)). The applicant may supplement this information by appending further details to the application form.
Such additional explanations must not exceed 20 pages (Rule 47 § 2 (b)); this page limit does not include copies of accompanying
documents and decisions.
E. Statement of the facts
34.
In accordance with Rule 47 § 2 (a)). The applicant may supplement this information by appending further details to
the application form. Please therefore see the attached statement of facts, from which the following paragraphs are
summarized for convenience, and to ensure compliance with the warning on the application form:
Paragraph 9: The judge has allowed a valuation of the disputed property alleging vacant possession to be sent to Her
Majesty's Revenue and Customs disregarding Jennifer and the Applicant, ignoring theirs and Valentine's property
expended over many years to ensure it remained their home and place of work from where Valentine, Jennifer and
the Applicant were running agricultural and other business projects, and to cause an inflated tax bill aimed at the
abuse of the rights of those resident.
Paragraph 12: The judge decided that Valerie at 98 years old, when entirely reliant on others for her very survival,
knew and approved of a new Will, at which he made her liable for costs of the legal claim brought for Valentine's
estate, which may infringe the protection of the property of her estate under Protocol 1 Article 1.
Paragraph 22: From 1995 and onwards Valentine's family took possession of the north-west wing, living there
exclusively and working the farm without selling the land to buy other property. It would not have happened without
assurances from Antony and Valerie to Valentine and then the Applicant. The Applicant submits that by means of
informal sale, and after 10 years enough time having passed to invoke the statute of limitations, the Applicant is
entitled to be registered as proprietor under Schedule 6 of the UK Land Registration Act 2002.
Paragraphs 25, 26 and 27: Mr Penley required signatures from 3 trustees for lawful trustees' resolutions, so without
all 3 signatures the trustees' resolutions are invalid. Yet they are now being used to deny Jennifer and the Applicant
their legal rights, and to register the property at the UK Land Registry without including either in the registered title.
The Applicant is unlawfully evicted from his home and place of work.
Paragraph 32: The Applicant contends that the value of a legal claim, as property, is not reflected in the valuations of
the 3 estates.
Paragraph 33: It is submitted that form FR1 was wrongly completed, an omission with an aim at the destruction of
the Applicant's domestic and convention rights.
Paragraph 34: It is alleged that on Mr Penley's claim that form FR1 is rightly completed there appears to be a defect
in the Land Registration Act 2002 forms like FR1, because people who are in actual occupation of property, not just
temporarily but established over many years, are being told there is no way to register their occupation. The
occupants cannot protect their homes or their possessions from those who become registered as owners, who can
then invite the police to arrest as trespassers those whose names are not on the register.
Paragraph 37: The judge's conclusion that an amount of detriment is zero was so disproportionate it breaches the
Applicant's convention rights, which was an omission that may have been aimed at their destruction.
Paragraph 40: The UK Privy Council in Henry v Henry [2010] UKPC 3 says a judge should weigh up the advantages and
disadvantages of reliance on anticipated rights.
Page 16 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
Statement of the facts (continued)
35.
5/11
Paragraph 41: The judge further omitted an alternative remedy concerning the oral contract for sale of The Priory,
possession of an exclusive part of it, the consideration of the farmland, and the statute of limitations. Nearly 20 years
have since passed with possession and limitations having been adjudicated as proportional by the Grand Chamber in
J. A. Pye (Oxford) Ltd and Another v United Kingdom (2007) 46 EHRR 1083.
Paragraph 43: A lack of remuneration for some 22 years' work by the Applicant's late father is a significant
disadvantage [invoices for the unpaid work done are at 16/408 and 16/409] to his estate, Jennifer and the Applicant.
The destruction of the Applicant's crop of St John's Wort [explained at 20/478] is another disadvantage.
Paragraph 44: The Applicant's 91 year old maternal grandmother has been served a notice of eviction [notice at
15/404]. The Applicant attempted to go back home to The Priory but his aunts, who claim possession, have changed
the locks [pictures at 1]. If the Applicant goes to the premises the police are called to have him arrested. The police
say that without the Applicant's name on the register he has to leave.
Paragraph 45: The Applicant submits there is significant disadvantage to his family.
Paragraph 46. In August 2014 the Applicant made application 57135 / 14 to the European Court [introductory letter
at 4/284] and was told that a transcript of a final oral hearing in the Court of Appeal was required. The Applicant
requested a transcript, which was finalized on 26 January 2015 [letter chasing Judge Floyd at 8/105; transcript at
8/107; email confirming finalization date at 8/112]. The Applicant complied with the 6 month admissibility rule in
accordance with:
• The 2011 3rd edition of Philip Leach's book "Taking a case to the European Court of Human Rights". On page 17 it
indicates a case can initially be lodged by letter, with an application form to follow soon after. The Applicant
understands this manner of introducing an application was revised in January 2014, subject to the Court's discretion.
• The court's practical guide on admissibility criteria "Bringing a case to the European Court of Human Rights". On
page 24 it says of (d) no service of the decision: where the domestic law does not provide for service, it is appropriate
to take the date the decision was finalized as the starting point, that being when the parties were definitively able to
find out its content (Papachelas v Greece [GC] p.30)
Paragraph 47. The Applicant submits that a completed application is being introduced within six months of the
exhaustion of domestic remedies, finalized on 26 January 2015 and delivered on 16 February 2015, in accordance
with Article 35(1) of the European Convention.
Page 17 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
Statement of the facts (continued)
36.
6/11
Page 18 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
F. Statement of alleged violation(s) of the Convention and/or Protocols and relevant arguments
Explanation
37. Article invoked
ARTICLE 8 RESPECT FOR
PRIVATE AND FAMILY LIFE,
HOME, AND CORRESPONDENCE
PROTOCOL 1 ARTICLE 1
PROTECTION OF PROPERTY
7/11
The summarized paragraphs of the attached statement of facts are repeated here:
Paragraph 9: The judge has allowed a valuation of the property alleging vacant
possession to be sent to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs disregarding Jennifer
and the Applicant, ignoring theirs and Valentine's property expended over many
years to ensure it remained their home and place of work from where Valentine,
Jennifer and the Applicant were running agricultural and other business projects, and
to cause an inflated tax bill aimed at the destruction of the rights of those resident.
ARTICLE 13 RIGHT TO A REMEDY Paragraph 12: The judge decided that Valerie at 98 years old, when entirely reliant
on others for her very survival, knew and approved of a new Will, at which he made
her liable for costs of the claim brought for Valentine's estate, which may infringe
the protection of the property of her estate under Protocol 1 Article 1.
Paragraph 22: From 1995 and onwards Valentine's family took possession of the
north-west wing, living there exclusively and working the farm without selling the
land to buy other property. It would not have happened without assurances from
Antony and Valerie to Valentine and then the Applicant. The Applicant submits that
by means of informal sale, and after 10 years enough time having passed to invoke
the statute of limitations, the Applicant is entitled to be registered as proprietor
under Schedule 6 of the UK Land Registration Act 2002.
ARTICLE 17 PROHIBITION OF
ABUSE
Paragraphs 25, 26 and 27: Mr Penley required signatures from 3 trustees for lawful
trustees' resolutions, so without all 3 signatures the trustees' resolutions are invalid.
Yet they are now being used to deny Jennifer and the Applicant their legal rights, and
to register the property at the UK Land Registry without including either in the
registered title. The Applicant is unlawfully evicted from his home and place of work.
Paragraph 32: The Applicant contends that the value of a legal claim, as property, is
not reflected in the valuations of the 3 estates.
Paragraph 33: It is submitted that form FR1 was wrongly completed, an omission
with an aim at the destruction of the Applicant's convention rights.
Paragraph 34: It is alleged that were form FR1 rightly completed there appears to be
a defect in the Land Registration Act 2002 forms like FR1, because people who are in
actual occupation of property, not just temporarily but established over many years,
are being told there is no way to register their occupation, and so protect them.
Paragraph 37: The judge's conclusion that an amount of detriment is zero was so
disproportionate it breaches the Applicant's convention rights, which was an
omission that may have been aimed at their destruction.
Paragraph 40: The UK Privy Council in Henry v Henry [2010] UKPC 3 says a judge
should weigh up the advantages and disadvantages of reliance on anticipated rights.
Paragraph 41: The judge further omitted an alternative remedy concerning the oral
contract for sale of The Priory, possession of an exclusive part of it, the consideration
of the farmland, and the statute of limitations. Nearly 20 years have since passed
with possession and limitations having been adjudicated as proportional in J. A. Pye
(Oxford) Ltd and Another v United Kingdom (2007) 46 EHRR 1083.
Paragraph 43: A lack of remuneration for some 22 years' work by the Applicant's
late father is a significant disadvantage [invoices for the unpaid work done are at
16/408 and 16/409] to his estate, Jennifer and the Applicant. The destruction of the
Applicant's crop of St John's Wort [explained at 20/478] is another disadvantage.
Paragraph 44: The Applicant's 91 year old maternal grandmother has been served a
notice of eviction [notice at 15/404]. The Applicant attempted to go back home to
The Priory but his aunts, who claim possession, have changed the locks [pictures at
1]. If the Applicant goes to the premises the police are called to have him arrested.
The police say that without the Applicant's name on the register he has to leave.
Paragraph 45: The Applicant submits there is significant disadvantage to his family.
Page 19 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
G. For each complaint, please confirm that you have used the available effective remedies in the country
concerned, including appeals, and also indicate the date when the final decision at domestic level was
delivered and received, to show that you have complied with the six-month time-limit.
38. Complaint
Information about remedies used and the date of the final decision
DECISIONS ABOUT PROPRIETARY 4 SEPTEMBER 2007: CAVEAT
ESTOPPEL AND KNOWLEDGE
AND APPROVAL OF A WILL
BREACH ARTICLE 8 RESPECT FOR
PRIVATE AND FAMILY LIFE,
HOME AND CORRESPONDENCE;
PROTOCOL 1 ARTICLE 1
PROTECTION OF PROPERTY; AND
ARTICLE 17 PROHIBITION OF
ABUSE OF RIGHTS.
21 APRIL 2008: APPEARANCE
11 MAY 2009: CLAIM FOR APPLICANT IN PROPRIETARY ESTOPPEL
20 DECEMBER 2012: SUMMARY JUDGMENT
FEBRUARY 2013: TRIAL
24 JULY 2013: TRIAL JUDGMENT
31 OCTOBER 2013: WRITTEN REQUEST FOR PERMISSION TO APPEAL
14 FEBRUARY 2014: ORAL REQUEST FOR PERMISSION TO APPEAL
23 FEBRUARY 2014: CERTIFICATE EXHAUSTING DOMESTIC REMEDIES
26 JANUARY 2015: ORAL JUDGMENT OF 14 FEBRUARY 2014 FINALIZED
8/11
Subsequent to the 11 MAY 2009 claim going through the domestic courts, there are
related claims (that have not yet exhausted domestic remedies):
14 MARCH 2014: CLAIM TO DETERMINE VALUATION OF THE ESTATE OF ANTONY ST
JOHN WEBSTER
14 MARCH 2014: CLAIM TO DETERMINE VALUATION OF ESTATE OF VALENTINE ST
JOHN WEBSTER
14 MARCH 2014: CLAIM TO DETERMINE VALUATION OF ESTATE OF VALERIE ST JOHN
WEBSTER
4 AUGUST 2014: CLAIM AGAINST APPLICANT TO CANCEL HIS CLASS C(III) LAND
CHARGES
25 SEPT 2014: CLAIM FOR APPLICANT'S ONGOING POSSESSION OF NORTH-WEST
WING OF THE PRIORY
9 FEB 2014: CLAIM AGAINST APPLICANT IN TRESPASS & SLANDER OF TITLE
2 MARCH 2015: CLAIM FOR APPLICANT TO REGISTER TITLE AT LAND REGISTRY
23 MARCH 2015: STRIKE OUT OF APPLICANT'S POSSESSION CLAIM, REGISTRATION
CLAIM AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT FOR TRESPASS & SLANDER OF TITLE CLAIM
AGAINST APPLICANT
20 APRIL 2015: APPLICANT'S APPEAL FOR STRIKE OUTS OF POSSESSION AND
REGISTRATION CLAIMS AND DEFAULT JUDGMENT
15 JUNE 2015: STRIKE OUT OF APPLICANT'S 3 VALUATION CLAIMS
23 JUNE 2015: APPLICANT'S REQUEST FOR CERTIFICATE TO APPLY TO UK SUPREME
COURT FOR PERMISSION TO APPEAL 3 VALUATION CLAIMS
6 JULY 2015: UK HIGH COURT REFUSAL OF CERTIFICATE TO APPLY TO UK SUPREME
COURT
Page 20 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
39. Is or was there an appeal or remedy available to you which you have not used?
40. If you answered Yes above, please state which appeal or remedy you have not used and explain why not.
Yes
No
H. Information concerning other international proceedings (if any)
41. Have you raised any of these complaints in another procedure of international investigation
or settlement?
Yes
No
9/11
42. If you answered Yes above, please give a concise summary of the procedure (complaints submitted, name of the international body
and date and nature of any decisions given).
43. Do you (the applicant) currently have, or have you previously had, any other applications before
the Court?
Yes
No
44. If you answered Yes above, please write the relevant application number(s) in the box below.
57135/14
Page 21 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
I.
List of accompanying documents
You should enclose full and legible copies of all documents.
No documents will be returned to you. It is thus in your interests to submit copies, not originals.
You MUST:
- arrange the documents in order by date and by procedure;
- number the pages consecutively;
- NOT staple, bind or tape the documents.
45. In the box below, please list the documents in chronological order with a concise description.
1.
Map of the Priory farm
2.
Pictures of The Priory
3.
Caveat on Will of Valerie Webster
4. Warning
5. Appearance
6. Valuation letter for tax purposes
7. Complaint about valuation letter
8. Valuation by UK District Valuer
9. Complaint to Penleys LLP
10. Response from Penleys LLP
11. Consent order for UK domestic proceedings
12. Claim form
13. Particulars of Claim
14. Amended Particulars of Claim
15. Amended Defence
16. Summary Judgment
17. Summary Judgment Order
18. Appointment as Executor
19. Judgment
20. Order
21. Grounds for Appeal
22. Skeleton Argument
23. Order of Court of Appeal
10/11
24. Order of Court of Appeal
25. Please see the indexes of documents at the top of the 2 bundles of documents.
Page 22 of 163
European Court of Human Rights - Application form
Any other comments
Do you have any other comments about your application?
46. Comments
11/11
Declaration and signature
I hereby declare that, to the best of my knowledge and belief, the information I have given in the present application form is correct.
47. Date
17072015
DDM M Y Y Y Y
e.g. 27/09/2012
The applicant(s) or the applicant's representative(s) must sign in the box below.
48. Signature(s)
Applicant(s)
○ Representative(s) - tick as appropriate
Confirmation of correspondent
If there is more than one applicant or more than one representative, please give the name and address of the one person with whom
the Court will correspond.
49. Name and address of::M:CDC::CEK KAKApplicant
Representative - tick as appropriate
The completed application form should be
signed and sent by post to:
The Registrar
European Court of Human Rights
Council of Europe
67075 STRASBOURG CEDEX
FRANCE
Page 23 of 163
IN THE EUROPEAN COURT OF HUMAN RIGHTS
Related Claim No's: HC09C01570
A320132303
57135/14
BETWEEN
RUPERT ST JOHN WEBSTER
Applicant
and
THE UK
Respondent
STATEMENT OF THE FACTS
This document is prepared with reference to the bundles prepared by the Applicant. Where
documentary reference is made, the bundle number and then the page number are used as reference.
Introduction
1. This is an application under Article 34 of the European Convention on Human Rights.
The Applicant seeks a declaration that acts and omissions by the UK High Court and
Court of Appeal contravene Article 8, Article 1 Protocol 1, Article 13, and Article 17.
The Applicant seeks just satisfaction under Article 41 (pecuniary and non-pecuniary
damages, plus legal costs and expenses).
2. The Applicant's late father, Valentine, died of motor neurone disease in 2006, and is
buried next to the family home [pictures exhibited at 1, videos exhibited online at
https://goo.gl/2wf2tr ]. Valentine was survived by his widow (the Applicant's mother)
Jennifer; the Applicant's 2 sisters (Arabella and Letitia); the Applicant (Rupert) and
the Applicant's wife (Jane) and 3 children (Beatrice, Roselle and Luke Owen).
1
Page 24 of 163
3. Valentine was also survived by his brother (Rory) and Rory's family; his sister
(Virginia) and her daughter; and his sister (Antonia) and her family.
4. The background to the application is long and involved. The Applicant's grandfather,
Antony, originally purchased a farming estate in 1950 consisting of the farmhouse
(known as The Priory) 7 farm cottages, 2 barns and 40 acres of land. In 1971
Valentine with his mother (Valerie) subsequently bought another 3 farm cottages
adjacent to the estate bringing the total to 10 farm cottages. The background to the
wider family, the farmhouse and the farm as well as other property is clearly
summarised in the judgment of HHJ Purle QC [6/66].
5. Various changes to this estate took place over the years, but it is clear that prior to
their respective deaths, Antony and Valerie lived and worked at The Priory with
Valentine and his family. They resided there until they died. The Applicant resided at
that property with his mother Jennifer (Valentine's widow) until very recently when
Jennifer “half moved out” to look after her elderly mother Patricia. Trustees for
Antony then decided to also remove the Applicant's household goods to Patricia's
house [pictures at 1].
6. The basis of the domestic application [claim form at 3/29; particulars at 3/31;
amended particulars at 3/35; amended defence at 4/40] was a proprietary estoppel
accrued over Valentine's lifetime and beyond, as his parents led him and the
Applicant to believe they would come to own The Priory, on which trust Valentine's
family fashioned their lives, and expended their property. The proceedings brought to
light how over the years a number of legal documents were produced by a number of
solicitors; with some approving and some opposing that position.
Initial Observations
7. The UK proceedings clearly amount to complex chancery actions. The Applicant
submits that as grave illnesses affected family members, the documentary and
practical positions – formal and informal – became disproportionate to each other.
2
Page 25 of 163
8. It is acknowledged that the initial claim became a fully considered trial of the issues
[all the trial bundles are scanned and online at https://goo.gl/Lw4zco] relating to
Valentine's proprietary interest in The Priory. Judgment against the Applicant was
given by Judge Purle QC. An appeal on the basis that “Judge Purle appears to have
been highly selective in his approach to the matter and left out of account numerous
matters which are not referred to in his judgment" was rejected by the Court of
Appeal [grounds for appeal at 7/78, skeleton argument at 7/89, written appeal
judgment at 8/100, transcript of oral hearing judgment at 8/107]. The Applicant
exhausted domestic remedies [a certificate at 1].
9. A central point of the current Application is that Judge Purle's omission to take
account of several matters now interferes unjustifiably with Jennifer's and the
Applicant's fundamental rights, as well as those of Valentine's estate. For example
the approval of Valerie's new Will, with new executors and trustees to replace the
Applicant (as Valentine's representative) as Valerie's representative, after she and
Valentine had both died, has allowed the new executors and trustees to send a
valuation of The Priory alleging vacant possession to Her Majesty's Revenue and
Customs for assessment of estate tax, disregarding Jennifer's and the Applicant's
home, and ignoring theirs and Valentine's property expended over many years to
ensure it remained their home and place of work from where Valentine, Jennifer and
the Applicant were running agricultural and other business projects. The Applicant
submits this is an abuse.
10. Such matters of valuation and occupation of The Priory have arisen in subsequent
proceedings [3 claim forms for valuations at 9/114, 9/116 & 9/118; possession claim
form at 6/303; amended particulars of claim at 6/305; amended defence at 6/307A;
trespass & slander claim form at 9/341; relief from sanctions & adverse possession
application claim form at 10/355] to which in each case the domestic courts, most
recently on 11 June 2015, are deciding the legal arguments are res judicata or issue
estopped by the earlier judgment of Judge Purle. Each matter is then struck out
[injunctions at 9/344 and 11/360, strike out orders at 11/359 and 17/410], and the
Applicant is subject to extended civil restraint orders [at 12/363 and 17/411]. For
example, Judge McCahill [transcript at 12/388] says if there had been no
payment, any occupation would be permissive, and therefore not adverse, given that
3
Page 26 of 163
the court has found no proprietary estoppel. For those reasons I refuse permission to
appeal on this ground too."
11. For avoidance of doubt, this Application is brought in respect of the initial claim,
which exhausted domestic remedies. Judge Purle excluded Jennifer and the Applicant
from a remedy by deciding the initial claim was brought for the benefit of Valentine's
estate, which makes it difficult to understand how claims brought for the benefit of
others can be issue estopped. Of the subsequent claims the Applicant's claim for
possession of part of The Priory is currently before the Court of Appeal [certificate of
service at 13/390]; a claim against him in trespass and slander of title is pending a
defence [part 18 request at 14/392] with which to set aside default judgment. The
Applicant's claims to determine the 3 estate valuations have been refused a certificate
to “leapfrog” and appeal directly to the UK Supreme Court [application letter at
17/414 and order refusing permission at 17/419] and so the process is to appeal to the
Court of Appeal. The argument for that application that is of relevance, is:
a. It is averred as a matter of law, and of fact, that a dwelling house with long
term residents may not be valued with vacant possession without a court order,
or without the consent of those residents to vacate the premises. At the date of
valuation there was no court order or consent.
b. Contrary to the matter of law and fact above the 3 applications brought to
determine just such valuations, 1 for each of 3 estates, were struck out.
c. The strike out was made on the basis that such valuations were determined by
the earlier proceedings. After the earlier proceedings there was no court order
requiring residents to vacate the premises, or their consent to do so.
d. A dwelling house with long term residents is still valued with vacant
possession without a court order otherwise, or the consent of those residents.
e. There is a defect in the earlier proceedings.
12. Finally, Judge Purle decided Valerie at 98 years old, and entirely reliant on others for
her survival, knew and approved of a new Will, at which he made her liable for costs
of the claim brought for Valentine's estate, which may infringe the protection of the
property of her estate under Protocol 1 Article 1.
4
Page 27 of 163
The Basis of the Application
13. The intention for this Application is to obtain a declaration from the European Court
that supplies proportion to the domestic situation and respect for Jennifer's and the
Applicant's private and family life, home and correspondence, protection for their
property as expended by Valentine's family since the 1980's, and to enforce the
prohibition of abuse: acts and omissions which destroy the rights protected by the
Convention.
14. In the circumstances of this case are grave illnesses: From 2004, Valerie aged 96
became too old to survive on her own and so her daughter Virginia moved to The
Priory to care for her, letting out her homes in Bath and London. That year, Simon,
Antonia's husband died of lung cancer in his 60's. Antonia moved to a farm cottage
near The Priory. In 2005, Valentine developed the terminal illness Motor Neurone
Disease. Jennifer cared for him at The Priory. That year Valentine's brother, Rory,
became mentally unwell with a bipolar disorder, and was bankrupted. Rory lives and
works in Pewsey, Wiltshire.
15. In 2006, Valerie, who had reached the age of 98 years, was led by Rory to see
Antony's solicitor, Mr John Penley. Legal documents which entitled Valentine and
then his family to outright ownership of The Priory were changed [new Will at
17/212]. Previously, Valerie's solicitor, namely Mrs Booth, gave her advice against
changes to legal documents [at 20/237A]. The Applicant submits that as a solicitor
with 30 years standing Mrs Booth's witness evidence [at 20/237] was not unreliable,
saying Valerie "was most insistent The Priory and its land should pass down the male
line to Valentine and Rupert”. The Applicant therefore submits Mr Penley knew very
well that Rory was breaking trust with Valentine and the Applicant, which is why
nobody consulted or informed Valentine or his family, nor Mrs Booth, of what was
going on.
16. In circumstances like these, a year after both Valentine and Valerie had died The
Priory was valued with vacant possession for the purposes of estate tax [valuation
letter at 2/21, UK “district valuer” letter at 2/25] and a vacant possession valuation
was sent to Her Majesty's Revenue and Customs even though Jennifer was clearly in
5
Page 28 of 163
occupation, and ignoring the Applicant's position. The new valuation undermined
Valentine's valuation (Valentine was previously Valerie's executor and would have
made very different valuations) with the effect, according to the Applicant, of “putting
us under pressure. How was an enormous tax bill going to be paid without selling our
home?"
17. The new valuation is criticised by the Applicant as being “a disproportionate
valuation" and shows the mischief that the Applicant seeks to criticise. Further, the
Applicant raises issues of inheritance tax agricultural relief to inheritance tax that
should be considered within the valuation of the estates given the work undertaken
over many years by Valentine, Jennifer and the Applicant as “farmers working from
the farmhouse".
18. In this situation Jennifer and the Applicant took legal advice, and a letter of 19 June
2008 [at 2/23] was produced by solicitors to ask Mr Penley for information and to
point out Jennifer's position. The Applicant placed a Caveat on Valerie's Will [at
2/18]. The Applicant thought the letter and Caveat would effect a friendly settlement
out of respect for Jennifer's home and respect for the protection of Valentine's and
Jennifer's property. But Mr Penley did not agree, serving a Warning [at 2/19]. The
Applicant served an Appearance [at 2/20] and complained [letter at 2/26, response at
2/27]. Mr Penley insisted on a court process [consent order of Judge Million at 2/28].
The Applicant brought an action in proprietary estoppel and that Valerie did not know
and approve of her new Will [claim form at 3/29].
19. The circumstances by which Valentine came to Ash Priors, the family arrangements
and the works done since the 1980's are explained in the Applicant's witness
statement [at 20/478]. The historical Wills [at 10/120 and 10/122] including Valerie's
earlier Will [at 13/187] supported Valentine living and working at The Priory like an
owner occupier. He was Valerie's executor [at 13/187] and power of attorney [at
16/204]. It was not essential he bring a legal claim to respect and protect a formal title
to his house.
20. Mr Penley went further with Valerie's new Will [copy at 17/212] than Rory told him
to [attendance notes at 17/211] not only to replace Valentine (or representative) as
Valerie's representative, but to see to it that in the event of Valentine's death, neither
6
Page 29 of 163
Valentine's issue nor his widow Jennifer would stand in his place. Instead Rory and
his sisters would take most of Valentine's “share” of The Priory. Even though, after
Valentine died, Mr Penley informed Virginia in writing [at 18/221] that “where there
is documentation creating express trusts for your parent's children, the arrangements
are that if the children die first then their children, i.e. your parent's grandchildren,
stand in their stead.”
21. The evidence discovery provided the information asked of Mr Penley from 19 June
2008. It was found out 6 April 1992 was an important day in this case [minutes of
meeting to sign Conveyance and Will at 11/128] when Antony was advised by Mr
Penley not to grant formal life interests in The Priory to Valentine and then the
Applicant, and instead Antony gave Mr Penley his instructions to sell The Priory to
Valentine, considering farm land given to his other children as trustees of a 27 April
1992 Settlement [11/138]. Indeed, Antony's daughters are today registered as legal
owners of Antony's farm.
22. The Applicant submits that by the year 1995 and onwards an informal sale of at least
part of The Priory completed, because on Antony's instructions to Mr Penley, and on
repeated assurances from Valerie that "we're going to give you the house so take it
now" [as explained in the Applicant's witness statement at 20/478] Valentine's family
took possession of the north-west wing, living there exclusively and working the farm
without selling the land to buy other property. It would not have happened without
assurances from Antony and Valerie to Valentine and then the Applicant. The
Applicant submits that by means of informal sale, and after 10 years enough time
having passed to invoke the statute of limitations, Antony, Valentine and Valerie
made a legally binding and proportional division of the farm and cottages which
respected future generations. As Valentine said in his diary note of 11 June 1997, "My
job is to consolidate my position as working my father's farm and living in his house
(if only because no one else, who has any such claim, is doing it)..."
23. After Antony died in 1996, Valerie became involved in some kind of conflict of
interest with Mr Penley and it became well known that she used new solicitors, first
Mrs Rowlands and then Mrs Booth, to endorse Valentine with title to The Priory by
her Will to the extent she was able [her 1998 Will at 13/183]. Thereby, Valentine and
then the Applicant would be able to afford to own the whole house, even if considered
7
Page 30 of 163
